sources/rec-values/171Yb_642THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 642" THz"])

*^171^Yb ion, ^2^S~1/2~ – ^2^F~7/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency

_f_(^171^Yb^+^, octupole) stem:[= 642121496772645.0 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^171^Yb^+^) stem:[= 466878090.060497 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[6 xx 10^(-16)].

This radiation is already endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(^171^Yb^+^, octupole) stem:[= 642121496772645.0 Hz] +
stem:[u_c//y = 6 xx 10^(−16)]

calculated from

[cols="^,^,^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| f(^171^Yb^+^) / Hz | u / Hz | f(^171^Yb^\+^ oct)/ f(^171^Yb^+^ quad) | u | source data
| stem:[642121496772657.0] | 12 | | | <<hosaka>>
| stem:[642121496772645.15] | stem:[0.52] | | | <<huntemann2012>>
| stem:[642121496772646.22] | stem:[0.67] | | | <<king>>
| stem:[642121496772644.91] | stem:[0.37] | | | <<godun>>
| stem:[642121496772645.36] | stem:[0.25] | | | <<huntemann2014>>
| | | stem:[0.93282940453096465] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−16)] | <<godun>>
|===

as a weighted mean from the above values applying the method of ref. <<margolis>>. Considering that the values came from only two laboratories, the CCTF considered it prudent to enlarge the uncertainty by a factor of two.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[hosaka,2]]], K. Hosaka, S. A. Webster, A. Stannard, B. R. Walton, H. S. Margolis, and P. Gill: Frequency measurement of the 2S1/2 -2F7/2 electric octupole transition in a single ^171^Yb^+^ ion, _Phys. Rev. A_ *79*, 033403 (2009).

* [[[huntemann2012,3]]], N. Huntemann, M. Okhapkin, B. Lipphardt, S. Weyers, Chr. Tamm, and E. Peik: High-Accuracy Optical Clock Based on the Octupole Transition in ^171^Yb^+^, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *108*, 090801 (2012).

* [[[king,4]]], S. A. King, R. M. Godun, S. A. Webster, H. S. Margolis, L. A. M. Johnson, K. Szymaniec, P. E. G. Baird, and P Gill: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^2^S~1/2~–^2^F~7/2~ electric octupole transition in a single ion of ^171^Yb^+^ with 10^−15^ fractional uncertainty, _New J. Phys._ *14*, 013045 (2012).

* [[[godun,5]]], Godun, R. M.; Nisbet-Jones, P. B. R.; Jones, J. M.; King, S. A.; Johnson, L. A. M.; Margolis, H. S.; Szymaniec, K.; Lea, S. N.; Bongs, K. & Gill, P.: Frequency ratio of two optical clock transitions in ^171^Yb^+^ and constraints on the time-variation of fundamental constants, _Phys. Rev. Lett.,_ *113*, 210801 (2014).

* [[[huntemann2014,6]]], N. Huntemann, B. Lipphardt, Chr. Tamm, V. Gerginov, S. Weyers, and E. Peik: Improved Limit on a Temporal Variation of m~p~/m~e~ from Comparisons of Yb^+^ and Cs Atomic Clocks, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *113*, 210802 (2014).

* [[[margolis,7]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_, 2015, *52*, 628-634

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/171Yb_642THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 642" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 642" THz"])

*^171^Yb ion, ^2^S~1/2~ – ^2^F~7/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency

_f_(^171^Yb^+^, octupole) stem:[= 642121496772645.0 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^171^Yb^+^) stem:[= 466878090.060497 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[6 xx 10^(-16)].

This radiation is already endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(^171^Yb^+^, octupole) stem:[= 642121496772645.0 Hz] +
stem:[u_c//y = 6 xx 10^(−16)]

calculated from

[cols="^,^,^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| f(^171^Yb^+^) / Hz | u / Hz | f(^171^Yb^\+^ oct)/ f(^171^Yb^+^ quad) | u | source data
| stem:[642121496772657.0] | 12 | | | <<hosaka>>
| stem:[642121496772645.15] | stem:[0.52] | | | <<huntemann2012>>
| stem:[642121496772646.22] | stem:[0.67] | | | <<king>>
| stem:[642121496772644.91] | stem:[0.37] | | | <<godun>>
| stem:[642121496772645.36] | stem:[0.25] | | | <<huntemann2014>>
| | | stem:[0.93282940453096465] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−16)] | <<godun>>
|===

as a weighted mean from the above values applying the method of ref. <<margolis>>. Considering that the values came from only two laboratories, the CCTF considered it prudent to enlarge the uncertainty by a factor of two.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[hosaka,2]]], K. Hosaka, S. A. Webster, A. Stannard, B. R. Walton, H. S. Margolis, and P. Gill: Frequency measurement of the 2S1/2 -2F7/2 electric octupole transition in a single ^171^Yb^+^ ion, _Phys. Rev. A_ *79*, 033403 (2009).

* [[[huntemann2012,3]]], N. Huntemann, M. Okhapkin, B. Lipphardt, S. Weyers, Chr. Tamm, and E. Peik: High-Accuracy Optical Clock Based on the Octupole Transition in ^171^Yb^+^, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *108*, 090801 (2012).

* [[[king,4]]], S. A. King, R. M. Godun, S. A. Webster, H. S. Margolis, L. A. M. Johnson, K. Szymaniec, P. E. G. Baird, and P Gill: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^2^S~1/2~–^2^F~7/2~ electric octupole transition in a single ion of ^171^Yb^+^ with 10^−15^ fractional uncertainty, _New J. Phys._ *14*, 013045 (2012).

* [[[godun,5]]], Godun, R. M.; Nisbet-Jones, P. B. R.; Jones, J. M.; King, S. A.; Johnson, L. A. M.; Margolis, H. S.; Szymaniec, K.; Lea, S. N.; Bongs, K. & Gill, P.: Frequency ratio of two optical clock transitions in ^171^Yb^+^ and constraints on the time-variation of fundamental constants, _Phys. Rev. Lett.,_ *113*, 210801 (2014).

* [[[huntemann2014,6]]], N. Huntemann, B. Lipphardt, Chr. Tamm, V. Gerginov, S. Weyers, and E. Peik: Improved Limit on a Temporal Variation of m~p~/m~e~ from Comparisons of Yb^+^ and Cs Atomic Clocks, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *113*, 210802 (2014).

* [[[margolis,7]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_, 2015, *52*, 628-634
