sources/rec-values/171Yb_688THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 688" THz"])

*^171^Yb^+^ ion, 6s ^2^S~1/2~ – 5d ^2^D~3/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency

_f_(Yb^+^, quadrupole) stem:[= 688358979309308.3 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](Yb^+^) stem:[= 435517610.739688 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[6 xx 10^(-16)].

This radiation is already endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(Yb^+^) stem:[= 688358979309308.3 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 6 xx 10^(−16)]

calculated from

[cols="<,^,^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| f (^171^Yb^+^, quadrupole) / Hz | u / Hz | f(^171^Yb^\+^ oct)/ f(^171^Yb^+^ quad) | u | source data
| stem:[688358979309308] | stem:[2.14] | | | <<ccl2005>>
| stem:[688358979309306.97] | stem:[0.73] | | | <<tamm2009>>
| stem:[688358979309310] | stem:[9] | | | <<webster>>
| stem:[688358979309308.42] | stem:[0.42] | | | <<godun>>
| stem:[688358979309307.82] | stem:[0.36] | | | <<tamm2014>>
| | | stem:[0.93282940453096465] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−16)] | <<godun>>
|===

as a weighted mean from the above values applying the method of Margolis and Gill <<margolis>>. Considering that the values came from only two laboratories, the CCTF considered it prudent to enlarge the uncertainty by a factor of two.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[ccl2005,2]]], Report of the 12th meeting, Consultative Committee for Length (CCL), 15-16 Sept. 2005; available at http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CCL12.pdf and Questionnaire previous to the 2006 meeting of the CCL/CCTF Joint Working GroupCCL-CCTF/06-11.

* [[[tamm2009,3]]], Chr. Tamm, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, and E. Peik: Stray-field-induced quadrupole shift and absolute frequency of the 688-THz ^171^Yb^+^ single-ion optical frequency standard, _Phys. Rev. A_ *80*, 043403 (2009).

* [[[webster,4]]], S. Webster, R. Godun, S. King, G. Huang, B. Walton, V. Tsatourian, H. Margolis, S. Lea and P. Gill: Frequency Measurement of the 2S1/2–2D3/2 Electric Quadrupole Transition in a Single ^171^Yb^+^ Ion, _IEEE Trans.on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control_, *57*, 592 (2010).

* [[[godun,5]]], Godun, R. M.; Nisbet-Jones, P. B. R.; Jones, J. M.; King, S. A.; Johnson, L. A. M.; Margolis, H. S.; Szymaniec, K.; Lea, S. N.; Bongs, K. & Gill, P.: Frequency ratio of two optical clock transitions in ^171^Yb^+^ and constraints on the time-variation of fundamental constants, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, *113*, 210801 (2014).

* [[[tamm2014,6]]], Tamm, C.; Huntemann, N.; Lipphardt, B.; Gerginov, V.; Nemitz, N.; Kazda, M.; Weyers, S. & Peik, E.: A Cs-Based Optical Frequency Measurement Using Cross-Linked Optical and Microwave Oscillators, _Phys. Rev.A_, *89*, 023820 (2014).

* [[[margolis,7]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_, 2015, *52*, 628-634

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/171Yb_688THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 688" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 688" THz"])

*^171^Yb^+^ ion, 6s ^2^S~1/2~ – 5d ^2^D~3/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency

_f_(Yb^+^, quadrupole) stem:[= 688358979309308.3 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](Yb^+^) stem:[= 435517610.739688 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[6 xx 10^(-16)].

This radiation is already endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(Yb^+^) stem:[= 688358979309308.3 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 6 xx 10^(−16)]

calculated from

[cols="<,^,^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| f (^171^Yb^+^, quadrupole) / Hz | u / Hz | f(^171^Yb^\+^ oct)/ f(^171^Yb^+^ quad) | u | source data
| stem:[688358979309308] | stem:[2.14] | | | <<ccl2005>>
| stem:[688358979309306.97] | stem:[0.73] | | | <<tamm2009>>
| stem:[688358979309310] | stem:[9] | | | <<webster>>
| stem:[688358979309308.42] | stem:[0.42] | | | <<godun>>
| stem:[688358979309307.82] | stem:[0.36] | | | <<tamm2014>>
| | | stem:[0.93282940453096465] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−16)] | <<godun>>
|===

as a weighted mean from the above values applying the method of Margolis and Gill <<margolis>>. Considering that the values came from only two laboratories, the CCTF considered it prudent to enlarge the uncertainty by a factor of two.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[ccl2005,2]]], Report of the 12th meeting, Consultative Committee for Length (CCL), 15-16 Sept. 2005; available at http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CCL12.pdf and Questionnaire previous to the 2006 meeting of the CCL/CCTF Joint Working GroupCCL-CCTF/06-11.

* [[[tamm2009,3]]], Chr. Tamm, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, and E. Peik: Stray-field-induced quadrupole shift and absolute frequency of the 688-THz ^171^Yb^+^ single-ion optical frequency standard, _Phys. Rev. A_ *80*, 043403 (2009).

* [[[webster,4]]], S. Webster, R. Godun, S. King, G. Huang, B. Walton, V. Tsatourian, H. Margolis, S. Lea and P. Gill: Frequency Measurement of the 2S1/2–2D3/2 Electric Quadrupole Transition in a Single ^171^Yb^+^ Ion, _IEEE Trans.on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control_, *57*, 592 (2010).

* [[[godun,5]]], Godun, R. M.; Nisbet-Jones, P. B. R.; Jones, J. M.; King, S. A.; Johnson, L. A. M.; Margolis, H. S.; Szymaniec, K.; Lea, S. N.; Bongs, K. & Gill, P.: Frequency ratio of two optical clock transitions in ^171^Yb^+^ and constraints on the time-variation of fundamental constants, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, *113*, 210801 (2014).

* [[[tamm2014,6]]], Tamm, C.; Huntemann, N.; Lipphardt, B.; Gerginov, V.; Nemitz, N.; Kazda, M.; Weyers, S. & Peik, E.: A Cs-Based Optical Frequency Measurement Using Cross-Linked Optical and Microwave Oscillators, _Phys. Rev.A_, *89*, 023820 (2014).

* [[[margolis,7]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_, 2015, *52*, 628-634
