sources/rec-values/171Yb_518THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2017-06
:revdate: 2018-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Atom (stem:[f ~~ 518" THz"])

*^171^Yb neutral atom, 6s^2^ ^1^S~0~ – 6s6p ^3^P~0~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cctf21>> of the frequency in the CIPM List of Frequencies

[align=left]
_F_(^171^Yb) stem:[= 518295836590863.6 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^171^Yb) stem:[= 578419575.916163 " fm"],

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5xx10^(−16)].

This radiation was endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second <<ci2013>>.

=== Source data

The adopted value of _f_(^171^Yb) stem:[= 518295836590863.6 " Hz"] with a relative uncertainty of stem:[5 xx 10^(−16)] has been calculated by the methods presented in <<margolis>>, <<robertsson>>, <<oates>>, <<riehle>>, with the data from the table of evaluated frequencies (2017) attached below. The estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5xx10^(−16)] takes into account the relative uncertainty of the ^87^Sr value of stem:[4 xx 10^(−16)] governing the evaluation procedure and also takes into account the smaller database of the ^171^Yb measurements.

.Table of evaluated frequency and frequency ratio measurements (2017)
|===
h| Frequency / Hz h| Uncertainty / Hz h| Reference

3+h| ^199^Hg
| stem:[1128575290808155.1] | stem:[6.4] | <<mcferran>>
| stem:[1128575290808154.62] | stem:[0.41] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^171^Yb
| stem:[518295836590864.0] | stem:[28.0] | <<kohno>>
| stem:[518295836590863.1] | stem:[2.0] | <<yasuda>>
| stem:[518295836590865.2] | stem:[0.7] | <<lemke>>
| stem:[518295836590863.5] | stem:[8.1] | <<park>>
| stem:[518295836590863.59] | stem:[0.31] | <<pizzocaro>>
| stem:[518295836590863.38] | stem:[0.57] | <<kim>>
3+h| ^88^Sr
| stem:[429228066418009.0] | stem:[32.0] | <<baillard2007>>
| stem:[429228066418008.3] | stem:[2.1] | <<morzynski>>, Sr1
| stem:[429228066418007.3] | stem:[2.9] | <<morzynski>>, Sr2
3+h| ^87^Sr
| stem:[429228004229874.0] | stem:[1.1] | <<boyd>>
| stem:[429228004229873.65] | stem:[0.37] | <<campbell>>
| stem:[429228004229873.6] | stem:[1.1] | <<baillard2008>>
| stem:[429228004229874.1] | stem:[2.4] | <<hong>>
| stem:[429228004229872.9] | stem:[0.5] | <<falke2011>>
| stem:[429228004229873.9] | stem:[1.4] | <<yamaguchi>>
| stem:[429228004229872.0] | stem:[1.6] | <<akamatsu>>
| stem:[429228004229873.56] | stem:[0.49] | <<tanabe>>
| stem:[429228004229873.7] | stem:[1.4] | <<lin>>
| stem:[429228004229873.13] | stem:[0.17] | <<falke2014>>
| stem:[429228004229873.10] | stem:[0.13] | <<targat>>
| stem:[429228004229872.92] | stem:[0.12] | <<lodewyck>>
| stem:[429228004229872.97] | stem:[0.16] | <<grebing>>, 2014
| stem:[429228004229873.04] | stem:[0.11] | <<grebing>>, June 2015
| stem:[429228004229872.97] | stem:[0.40] | <<hachisu24>>
| stem:[429228004229872.99] | stem:[0.18] | <<hachisu25>>
3+h| ^40^Ca^+^
| stem:[411042129776393.2] | stem:[3.0] footnote:[From the least square procedure it turned out that the value and the uncertainty given in ref. <<chwalla>> is not compatible with the remaining data. Thus the uncertainty given in the original publication <<chwalla>> was increased to 3 Hz to make it statistically more consistent.] | <<chwalla>>
| stem:[411042129776398.4] | stem:[1.2] | <<matsubara>>
| stem:[411042129776400.5] | stem:[1.2] | <<huang>>, 2012
| stem:[411042129776401.7] | stem:[1.1] | <<huang>>, 2014/2015
3+h| ^87^Rb
| stem:[6834682610.9043129] | stem:[2.4 xx 10^(−6)] | <<lne-syrte>>
| stem:[6834682610.9043070] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−6)] | <<ovchinnikov>>
| stem:[6834682610.9043125] | stem:[2.1 xx 10^(−6)] | <<guena>>
h| Frequency ratios h| Fractional uncertainty h| Reference
3+h| ^199^Hg /^87^Sr
| stem:[2.62931420989890960] | stem:[8.4 xx 10^(−17)] | <<yamanaka>>
| stem:[2.62931420989890915] | stem:[1.8 xx 10^(−16)] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^199^Hg /^87^Rb
| stem:[165124.754879997258] | stem:[3.8 xx 10^(−16)] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^171^Yb /^87^Sr
| stem:[1.2075070393433412] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−15)] | <<akamatsu-freq>>, <<akamatsu-errata>>
| stem:[1.20750703934333776] | stem:[2.4 xx 10^(−16)] | <<takamoto>>
| stem:[1.207507039343337749] | stem:[4.6 xx 10^(−17)] | <<nemitz>>
3+h| ^88^Sr /^87^Sr
| stem:[1.000000144883682777] | stem:[7 xx 10^(-17)] footnote:[The fractional uncertainty of stem:[2.3 xx 10^{-17}] in ref. <<takano>> has been increased by a factor of three since this uncertainty is an order of magnitude smaller than the other input data for this transition.] | <<takano>>
3+h| ^87^Sr/^40^Ca^+^
| stem:[1.0442433345296416] | stem:[2.3 xx 10^(−15)] | <<matsubara>>
3+h| ^87^Sr/^87^Rb
| stem:[62801.453800512435] | stem:[3.3 xx 10^(−16)] | <<lodewyck>>
|===

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cctf21,1]]], Consultative Committee for Time and Frequency (CCTF): Report of the 21st meeting (8-9 June 2017) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures; https://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CC/CCTF/CCTF21.pdf

* [[[ci2013,2]]], Report of the 102nd Meeting of the International Committee for Weights and Measures 2013; RECOMMENDATION 1 (CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM/CIPM2013-EN.pdf

* [[[margolis,3]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_ *52*, 628 (2015)

* [[[robertsson,4]]], L. Robertsson: On the evaluation of ultra-high-precision frequency ratio measurements: examining closed loops in a graph theory framework; _Metrologia_ *53*, 1272 (2016)

* [[[oates,5]]], Chris Oates: private communication. An independent program was developed in Mathematica at NIST (2017)

* [[[riehle,6]]], F. Riehle, P. Gill, F. Arias, L. Robertsson: The CIPM List of Recommended Frequency Standard Values: Guidelines and Procedures; _Metrologia_ *55*, 188-200 (2018)

* [[[mcferran,7]]], J. J. McFerran, L. Yi, S. Mejri, S. Di Manno, W. Zhang, J. Guéna, Y. Le Coq, S. Bize: Erratum: Neutral Atom Frequency Reference in the Deep Ultraviolet with stem:["Fractional Uncertainty "= 5.7 xx 10^(−15)] [Phys. Rev. Lett. *108*, 183004 (2012)]; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *115*, 219901 (2015)

* [[[tyumenev,8]]], R. Tyumenev, M. Favier, S. Bilicki, E. Bookjans, R. Le Targat, J. Lodewyck, D. Nicolodi, Y. Le Coq, M. Abgrall, J. Guéna, L. De Sarlo, S. Bize: Comparing a mercury optical lattice clock with microwave and optical frequency standards; _New J. Phys._ *18*, 113002 (2016)

* [[[baillard2007,9]]], X. Baillard, M. Fouché, R. Le Targat, P. G. Westergaard, A. Lecallier, Y. Le Coq, G. D. Rovera, S. Bize, P. Lemonde: Accuracy evaluation of an optical lattice clock with bosonic atoms; _Opt. Lett._ *32* 1812 (2007).

* [[[morzynski,10]]], P. Morzyński, M. Bober, D. Bartoszek-Bober, J. Nawrocki, P. Krehlik, Ł. Śliwczyński, M. Lipiński, P. Masłowski, A. Cygan, P. Dunst, M. Garus, D. Lisak, J. Zachorowski, W. Gawlik, C. Radzewicz, R. Ciuryło, M. Zawada: Absolute measurement of the ^1^S~0~ - ^3^P~0~ clock transition in neutral ^88^Sr over the 330 km-long stabilized fibre optic link; _Scientific Reports_ *5*, 17495 (2015)

* [[[boyd,11]]], M. M. Boyd, A. D. Ludlow, S. Blatt, S. M. Foreman, T. Ido, T. Zelevinsky, J. Ye.: ^87^Sr lattice clock with inaccuracy below 10^-15^; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *98*, 083002 (2007)

* [[[campbell,12]]], G. K. Campbell, A. D. Ludlow, S. Blatt, J. W. Thomsen, M. J. Martin, M. H. G. de Miranda, T. Zelevinsky, M. M. Boyd, J. Ye, S. A. Diddams, Th. P. Heavner, Th. E. Parker, S. R. Jefferts: The absolute frequency of the ^87^Sr optical clock transition; _Metrologia_ *45*, 539 (2008)

* [[[baillard2008,13]]], X. Baillard, M. Fouché, R. Le Targat, P. G. Westergaard, A. Lecallier, F. Chapelet, M. Abgrall, G. D. Rovera, P. Laurent, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize, G. Santarelli, A. Clairon, P. Lemonde, G. Grosche, B. Lipphardt, H. Schnatz: An optical lattice clock with spin-polarized ^87^Sr atoms; _Eur. Phys. J. D_ *48*, 11 (2008)

* [[[hong,14]]], F.-L. Hong, M. Musha, M. Takamoto, H. Inaba, S. Yanagimachi, A. Takamizawa, K. Watabe, T. Ikegami, M. Imae, Y. Fujii, M. Amemiya, K. Nakagawa, K. Ueda, H. Katori: Measuring the frequency of a Sr optical lattice clock using a 120 km coherent optical transfer; _Opt. Lett._ *34*, 692 (2009)

* [[[falke2011,15]]], St. Falke, H. Schnatz, J. S. R. Vellore Winfred, Th. Middelmann, St. Vogt, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, G. Grosche, F. Riehle, U. Sterr and Ch. Lisdat: The ^87^Sr optical frequency standard at PTB; _Metrologia_ *48*, 399 (2011)

* [[[yamaguchi,16]]], A. Yamaguchi, N. Shiga, S. Nagano, Y. Li, H. Ishijima, H. Hachisu, M. Kumagai, T. Ido: Stability Transfer between Two Clock Lasers Operating at Different Wavelengths for Absolute Frequency Measurement of Clock Transition in ^87^Sr; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *5*, 022701 (2012)

* [[[akamatsu,17]]], D. Akamatsu, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, M. Yasuda, A. Onae, T. Suzuyama, M. Amemiya, F.-L. Hong: Spectroscopy and frequency measurement of the ^87^Sr clock transition by laser linewidth transfer using an optical frequency comb; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *7*, 012401 (2014)

* [[[tanabe,18]]], T. Tanabe, D. Akamatsu, T. Kobayashi, A. Takamizawa, S. Yanagimachi, T. Ikegami, T. Suzuyama, H. Inaba, S. Okubo, M. Yasuda, F.-L. Hong, A. Onae, K. Hosaka: Improved frequency measurement of the ^1^S~0~-^3^P~0~ clock transition in ^87^Sr using a Cs fountain clock as a transfer oscillator; _J. Phys. Soc. Jpn._ *84*, 115002 (2015)

* [[[lin,19]]], Y.-G. Lin, Q. Wang, Y. Li, F. Meng, B.-K. Lin, E.-J. Zang, Z. Sun, F. Fang, T.-C. Li, Z.-J. Fang: First Evaluation and Frequency Measurement of the Strontium Optical Lattice Clock at NIM; _Chin. Phys. Lett._ *32*, 090601 (2015)

* [[[falke2014,20]]], S. Falke, N. Lemke, C. Grebing, B. Lipphardt, S. Weyers, V. Gerginov, N. Huntemann, C. Hagemann, A. Al-Masoudi, S. Häfner, S. Vogt, U. Sterr, C. Lisdat: A strontium lattice clock with stem:[3 " times "xx 10^(−17)] inaccuracy and its frequency; _New J. Phys._ *16*, 073023 (2014)

* [[[targat,21]]], R. Le Targat, L. Lorini, Y. Le Coq, M. Zawada, J. Guéna, M. Abgrall, M. Gurov, P. Rosenbusch, D. G. Rovera, B. Nagórny, R. Gartman, P. G. Westergaard, M. E. Tobar, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, A. Clairon, S. Bize, P. Laurent, P. Lemonde, J. Lodewyck: Experimental realization of an optical second with strontium lattice clocks; _Nature Commun._ *4*, 2109 (2013)

* [[[lodewyck,22]]], J. Lodewyck, S. Bilicki, E. Bookjans, J.-L. Robyr, C. Shi, G. Vallet, R. Le Targat, D. Nicolodi, Y. Le Coq, J. Guéna, M. Abgrall, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize: Optical to microwave clock frequency ratios with a nearly continuous strontium optical lattice clock; _Metrologia_ *53*, 1123 (2016)

* [[[grebing,23]]], C. Grebing, A. Al-Masoudi, S. Dörscher, S. Häfner, V. Gerginov, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, F. Riehle, U. Sterr, C. Lisdat: Realization of a timescale with an accurate optical lattice clock; _Optica_ *3*, 563 (2016)

* [[[hachisu-abs-freq,24]]], H. Hachisu, G. Petit, G., T. Ido: Absolute frequency measurement with uncertainty below stem:[1 xx 10^(−15)] using International Atomic Time; _Appl. Phys. B_ *123*, 34 (2017)

* [[[hachisu-si,25]]], H. Hachisu, G. Petit, F. Nakagawa, Y. Hanado, T. Ido: SI-traceable measurement of an optical frequency at the low 10^−16^ level without a local primary standard; _Optics Express_ *25*, 8511 (2017)

* [[[chwalla,26]]], M. Chwalla, J. Benhelm, K. Kim, G. Kirchmair, T. Monz, M. Riebe, P. Schindler, A. S. Villar, W. Hänsel, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt, M. Abgrall, G. Santarelli, G. D. Rovera, Ph. Laurent: Absolute Frequency Measurement of the ^40^Ca^+^ 4s ^2^S~1/2~ -3d ^2^D~5/2~ Clock Transition; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *102*, 023002 (2009)

* [[[matsubara,27]]], K. Matsubara, H. Hachisu, Y. Li, S. Nagano, C. Locke, A. Nogami, M. Kajita, K. Hayasaka, T. Ido, and M. Hosokawa: Direct comparison of a Ca^+^ single-ion clock against a Sr lattice clock to verify the absolute frequency measurement; _Optics Express_ *20*, 22034 (2012)

* [[[huang,28]]], Y. Huang, H. Guan, P. Liu, W. Bian, L. Ma, K. Liang, T. Li, K. Gao: Frequency Comparison of Two ^40^Ca^+^ Optical Clocks with an Uncertainty at the 10^-17^ Level; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *116*, 013001 (2016)

* [[[lne-syrte,29]]], LNE-SYRTE TAI data; MJD 55954-57867 (Jan 2012 – April 2017); submitted on request of the CCL-CCTF WGFS by J. Guena on 10 May 2017

* [[[ovchinnikov,30]]], Y. B. Ovchinnikov, K. Szymaniec and S. Edris: Measurement of rubidium ground-state hyperfine transition frequency using atomic fountains; _Metrologia_ *52*, 595 (2015)

* [[[guena,31]]], J. Guéna, S. Weyers, M. Abgrall, C. Grebing, V. Gerginov, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize, B. Lipphardt, H. Denker, N. Quintin, S. M. F. Raupach, D. Nicolodi, F. Stefani, N. Chiodo, S. Koke, A. Kuhl, F. Wiotte, F. Meynadier, E. Camisard, C. Chardonnet, Y. Le Coq, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, A. Amy-Klein, R. Le Targat, O. Lopez, P. E. Pottie, G. Grosche: First international comparison of fountain primary frequency standards via a long distance optical fiber link; _Metrologia_ *54*, 348 (2017)

* [[[yamanaka,32]]],  K. Yamanaka, N. Ohmae, I. Ushijima, M. Takamoto and H. Katori: Frequency Ratio of ^199^Hg and ^87^Sr Optical Lattice Clocks beyond the SI Limit; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *114*, 230801 (2015)

* [[[akamatsu-freq,33]]], D. Akamatsu, M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, T. Tanabe, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong: Frequency ratio measurement of ^171^Yb and ^87^Sr optical lattice clocks; _Optics Express_ *22*, 7898 (2014)

* [[[akamatsu-errata,34]]], D. Akamatsu, M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, T. Tanabe, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong: Errata: Frequency ratio measurement of ^171^Yb and ^87^Sr optical lattice clocks; _Optics Express_ *22*, 32199 (2014)

* [[[takamoto,35]]], M. Takamoto, I. Ushijima, M. Das, N. Nemitz, T. Ohkubo, K. Yamanaka, N. Ohmae, T. Takano, T. Akatsuka, A. Yamaguchi, H. Katori: Frequency ratios of Sr, Yb, and Hg based optical lattice clocks and their applications; _C. R. Physique_ *16*, 489 (2015)

* [[[nemitz,36]]], N. Nemitz, T. Ohkubo, M. Takamoto, I. Ushijima, M. Das, N. Ohmae, H. Katori: Frequency ratio of Yb and Sr clocks with stem:[5 xx 10^(−17)] uncertainty at 150 seconds averaging time; _Nature Photon._ *10*, 258 (2016)

* [[[takano,37]]], T. Takano, R. Mizushima, H. Katori: Precise determination of the isotope shift of ^88^Sr - ^87^Sr optical lattice clock by sharing perturbations; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *10*, 072801 (2017)

* [[[kohno,38]]], T. Kohno, M. Yasuda, K. Hosaka, H. Inaba, Y. Nakajima, F. L. Hong: One-Dimensional Optical Lattice Clock with a Fermionic ^171^Yb Isotope; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *2*, 072501 (2009)

* [[[yasuda,39]]], M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, T. Kohno, T. Tanabe, Y. Nakajima, K. Hosaka, D. Akamatsu, A. Onae, T. Suzuyama, M. Amemiya, F.-L. Hong: Improved Absolute Frequency Measurement of the ^171^Yb Optical Lattice Clock towards a Candidate for the Redefinition of the Second; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *5*, 102401 (2012).

* [[[lemke,40]]], N. D. Lemke, A. D. Ludlow, Z.W. Barber, T. M. Fortier, S.A. Diddams, Y. Jiang, S. R. Jefferts, T. P. Heavner, T. E. Parker, and C.W. Oates: Spin-½ Optical Lattice Clock; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *103*, 063001 (2009)

* [[[park,41]]], C. Y. Park, D. H. Yu, W.-K. Lee, S. E. Park, E. B. Kim, S. K. Lee, J. W. Cho, T. H. Yoon, J. Mun, S. J. Park, T. Y. Kwon and S.-B. Lee: Absolute frequency measurement of ^1^S~0~(F=½)-^3^P~0~(F=½) transition of ^171^Yb atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice at KRISS; _Metrologia_ *50*, 119-128 (2013)

* [[[pizzocaro,42]]], M. Pizzocaro, P. Thoumany, B. Rauf, F. Bregolin, G. Milani, C. Clivati, G. A. Costanzo, F. Levi, D. Calonico: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^1^S~0~-^3^P~0~ transition of ^171^Yb; _Metrologia_ *54*, 102 – 112 (2017)

* [[[kim,43]]], H. Kim, M.-S. Heo, W.-K. Lee, C.Y. Park, H.-G. Hong, S.-W. Hwang and D.-H. Yu: Improved absolute frequency measurement of the ^171^Yb optical lattice clock at KRISS relative to the SI second; _Jpn. J. Appl. Phys._ *56* 050302 (2017)

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/171Yb_518THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Ytterbium 171 Atom (stem:[f ~~ 518" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2017-06
:revdate: 2018-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Ytterbium 171 Atom (stem:[f ~~ 518" THz"])

*^171^Yb neutral atom, 6s^2^ ^1^S~0~ – 6s6p ^3^P~0~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cctf21>> of the frequency in the CIPM List of Frequencies

[align=left]
_F_(^171^Yb) stem:[= 518295836590863.6 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^171^Yb) stem:[= 578419575.916163 " fm"],

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5xx10^(−16)].

This radiation was endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second <<ci2013>>.

=== Source data

The adopted value of _f_(^171^Yb) stem:[= 518295836590863.6 " Hz"] with a relative uncertainty of stem:[5 xx 10^(−16)] has been calculated by the methods presented in <<margolis>>, <<robertsson>>, <<oates>>, <<riehle>>, with the data from the table of evaluated frequencies (2017) attached below. The estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5xx10^(−16)] takes into account the relative uncertainty of the ^87^Sr value of stem:[4 xx 10^(−16)] governing the evaluation procedure and also takes into account the smaller database of the ^171^Yb measurements.

.Table of evaluated frequency and frequency ratio measurements (2017)
|===
h| Frequency / Hz h| Uncertainty / Hz h| Reference

3+h| ^199^Hg
| stem:[1128575290808155.1] | stem:[6.4] | <<mcferran>>
| stem:[1128575290808154.62] | stem:[0.41] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^171^Yb
| stem:[518295836590864.0] | stem:[28.0] | <<kohno>>
| stem:[518295836590863.1] | stem:[2.0] | <<yasuda>>
| stem:[518295836590865.2] | stem:[0.7] | <<lemke>>
| stem:[518295836590863.5] | stem:[8.1] | <<park>>
| stem:[518295836590863.59] | stem:[0.31] | <<pizzocaro>>
| stem:[518295836590863.38] | stem:[0.57] | <<kim>>
3+h| ^88^Sr
| stem:[429228066418009.0] | stem:[32.0] | <<baillard2007>>
| stem:[429228066418008.3] | stem:[2.1] | <<morzynski>>, Sr1
| stem:[429228066418007.3] | stem:[2.9] | <<morzynski>>, Sr2
3+h| ^87^Sr
| stem:[429228004229874.0] | stem:[1.1] | <<boyd>>
| stem:[429228004229873.65] | stem:[0.37] | <<campbell>>
| stem:[429228004229873.6] | stem:[1.1] | <<baillard2008>>
| stem:[429228004229874.1] | stem:[2.4] | <<hong>>
| stem:[429228004229872.9] | stem:[0.5] | <<falke2011>>
| stem:[429228004229873.9] | stem:[1.4] | <<yamaguchi>>
| stem:[429228004229872.0] | stem:[1.6] | <<akamatsu>>
| stem:[429228004229873.56] | stem:[0.49] | <<tanabe>>
| stem:[429228004229873.7] | stem:[1.4] | <<lin>>
| stem:[429228004229873.13] | stem:[0.17] | <<falke2014>>
| stem:[429228004229873.10] | stem:[0.13] | <<targat>>
| stem:[429228004229872.92] | stem:[0.12] | <<lodewyck>>
| stem:[429228004229872.97] | stem:[0.16] | <<grebing>>, 2014
| stem:[429228004229873.04] | stem:[0.11] | <<grebing>>, June 2015
| stem:[429228004229872.97] | stem:[0.40] | <<hachisu24>>
| stem:[429228004229872.99] | stem:[0.18] | <<hachisu25>>
3+h| ^40^Ca^+^
| stem:[411042129776393.2] | stem:[3.0] footnote:[From the least square procedure it turned out that the value and the uncertainty given in ref. <<chwalla>> is not compatible with the remaining data. Thus the uncertainty given in the original publication <<chwalla>> was increased to 3 Hz to make it statistically more consistent.] | <<chwalla>>
| stem:[411042129776398.4] | stem:[1.2] | <<matsubara>>
| stem:[411042129776400.5] | stem:[1.2] | <<huang>>, 2012
| stem:[411042129776401.7] | stem:[1.1] | <<huang>>, 2014/2015
3+h| ^87^Rb
| stem:[6834682610.9043129] | stem:[2.4 xx 10^(−6)] | <<lne-syrte>>
| stem:[6834682610.9043070] | stem:[3.1 xx 10^(−6)] | <<ovchinnikov>>
| stem:[6834682610.9043125] | stem:[2.1 xx 10^(−6)] | <<guena>>
h| Frequency ratios h| Fractional uncertainty h| Reference
3+h| ^199^Hg /^87^Sr
| stem:[2.62931420989890960] | stem:[8.4 xx 10^(−17)] | <<yamanaka>>
| stem:[2.62931420989890915] | stem:[1.8 xx 10^(−16)] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^199^Hg /^87^Rb
| stem:[165124.754879997258] | stem:[3.8 xx 10^(−16)] | <<tyumenev>>
3+h| ^171^Yb /^87^Sr
| stem:[1.2075070393433412] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−15)] | <<akamatsu-freq>>, <<akamatsu-errata>>
| stem:[1.20750703934333776] | stem:[2.4 xx 10^(−16)] | <<takamoto>>
| stem:[1.207507039343337749] | stem:[4.6 xx 10^(−17)] | <<nemitz>>
3+h| ^88^Sr /^87^Sr
| stem:[1.000000144883682777] | stem:[7 xx 10^(-17)] footnote:[The fractional uncertainty of stem:[2.3 xx 10^{-17}] in ref. <<takano>> has been increased by a factor of three since this uncertainty is an order of magnitude smaller than the other input data for this transition.] | <<takano>>
3+h| ^87^Sr/^40^Ca^+^
| stem:[1.0442433345296416] | stem:[2.3 xx 10^(−15)] | <<matsubara>>
3+h| ^87^Sr/^87^Rb
| stem:[62801.453800512435] | stem:[3.3 xx 10^(−16)] | <<lodewyck>>
|===

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cctf21,1]]], Consultative Committee for Time and Frequency (CCTF): Report of the 21st meeting (8-9 June 2017) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures; https://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CC/CCTF/CCTF21.pdf

* [[[ci2013,2]]], Report of the 102nd Meeting of the International Committee for Weights and Measures 2013; RECOMMENDATION 1 (CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM/CIPM2013-EN.pdf

* [[[margolis,3]]], H. S. Margolis, P. Gill: Least-squares analysis of clock frequency comparison data to deduce optimized frequency and frequency ratio values; _Metrologia_ *52*, 628 (2015)

* [[[robertsson,4]]], L. Robertsson: On the evaluation of ultra-high-precision frequency ratio measurements: examining closed loops in a graph theory framework; _Metrologia_ *53*, 1272 (2016)

* [[[oates,5]]], Chris Oates: private communication. An independent program was developed in Mathematica at NIST (2017)

* [[[riehle,6]]], F. Riehle, P. Gill, F. Arias, L. Robertsson: The CIPM List of Recommended Frequency Standard Values: Guidelines and Procedures; _Metrologia_ *55*, 188-200 (2018)

* [[[mcferran,7]]], J. J. McFerran, L. Yi, S. Mejri, S. Di Manno, W. Zhang, J. Guéna, Y. Le Coq, S. Bize: Erratum: Neutral Atom Frequency Reference in the Deep Ultraviolet with stem:["Fractional Uncertainty "= 5.7 xx 10^(−15)] [Phys. Rev. Lett. *108*, 183004 (2012)]; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *115*, 219901 (2015)

* [[[tyumenev,8]]], R. Tyumenev, M. Favier, S. Bilicki, E. Bookjans, R. Le Targat, J. Lodewyck, D. Nicolodi, Y. Le Coq, M. Abgrall, J. Guéna, L. De Sarlo, S. Bize: Comparing a mercury optical lattice clock with microwave and optical frequency standards; _New J. Phys._ *18*, 113002 (2016)

* [[[baillard2007,9]]], X. Baillard, M. Fouché, R. Le Targat, P. G. Westergaard, A. Lecallier, Y. Le Coq, G. D. Rovera, S. Bize, P. Lemonde: Accuracy evaluation of an optical lattice clock with bosonic atoms; _Opt. Lett._ *32* 1812 (2007).

* [[[morzynski,10]]], P. Morzyński, M. Bober, D. Bartoszek-Bober, J. Nawrocki, P. Krehlik, Ł. Śliwczyński, M. Lipiński, P. Masłowski, A. Cygan, P. Dunst, M. Garus, D. Lisak, J. Zachorowski, W. Gawlik, C. Radzewicz, R. Ciuryło, M. Zawada: Absolute measurement of the ^1^S~0~ - ^3^P~0~ clock transition in neutral ^88^Sr over the 330 km-long stabilized fibre optic link; _Scientific Reports_ *5*, 17495 (2015)

* [[[boyd,11]]], M. M. Boyd, A. D. Ludlow, S. Blatt, S. M. Foreman, T. Ido, T. Zelevinsky, J. Ye.: ^87^Sr lattice clock with inaccuracy below 10^-15^; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *98*, 083002 (2007)

* [[[campbell,12]]], G. K. Campbell, A. D. Ludlow, S. Blatt, J. W. Thomsen, M. J. Martin, M. H. G. de Miranda, T. Zelevinsky, M. M. Boyd, J. Ye, S. A. Diddams, Th. P. Heavner, Th. E. Parker, S. R. Jefferts: The absolute frequency of the ^87^Sr optical clock transition; _Metrologia_ *45*, 539 (2008)

* [[[baillard2008,13]]], X. Baillard, M. Fouché, R. Le Targat, P. G. Westergaard, A. Lecallier, F. Chapelet, M. Abgrall, G. D. Rovera, P. Laurent, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize, G. Santarelli, A. Clairon, P. Lemonde, G. Grosche, B. Lipphardt, H. Schnatz: An optical lattice clock with spin-polarized ^87^Sr atoms; _Eur. Phys. J. D_ *48*, 11 (2008)

* [[[hong,14]]], F.-L. Hong, M. Musha, M. Takamoto, H. Inaba, S. Yanagimachi, A. Takamizawa, K. Watabe, T. Ikegami, M. Imae, Y. Fujii, M. Amemiya, K. Nakagawa, K. Ueda, H. Katori: Measuring the frequency of a Sr optical lattice clock using a 120 km coherent optical transfer; _Opt. Lett._ *34*, 692 (2009)

* [[[falke2011,15]]], St. Falke, H. Schnatz, J. S. R. Vellore Winfred, Th. Middelmann, St. Vogt, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, G. Grosche, F. Riehle, U. Sterr and Ch. Lisdat: The ^87^Sr optical frequency standard at PTB; _Metrologia_ *48*, 399 (2011)

* [[[yamaguchi,16]]], A. Yamaguchi, N. Shiga, S. Nagano, Y. Li, H. Ishijima, H. Hachisu, M. Kumagai, T. Ido: Stability Transfer between Two Clock Lasers Operating at Different Wavelengths for Absolute Frequency Measurement of Clock Transition in ^87^Sr; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *5*, 022701 (2012)

* [[[akamatsu,17]]], D. Akamatsu, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, M. Yasuda, A. Onae, T. Suzuyama, M. Amemiya, F.-L. Hong: Spectroscopy and frequency measurement of the ^87^Sr clock transition by laser linewidth transfer using an optical frequency comb; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *7*, 012401 (2014)

* [[[tanabe,18]]], T. Tanabe, D. Akamatsu, T. Kobayashi, A. Takamizawa, S. Yanagimachi, T. Ikegami, T. Suzuyama, H. Inaba, S. Okubo, M. Yasuda, F.-L. Hong, A. Onae, K. Hosaka: Improved frequency measurement of the ^1^S~0~-^3^P~0~ clock transition in ^87^Sr using a Cs fountain clock as a transfer oscillator; _J. Phys. Soc. Jpn._ *84*, 115002 (2015)

* [[[lin,19]]], Y.-G. Lin, Q. Wang, Y. Li, F. Meng, B.-K. Lin, E.-J. Zang, Z. Sun, F. Fang, T.-C. Li, Z.-J. Fang: First Evaluation and Frequency Measurement of the Strontium Optical Lattice Clock at NIM; _Chin. Phys. Lett._ *32*, 090601 (2015)

* [[[falke2014,20]]], S. Falke, N. Lemke, C. Grebing, B. Lipphardt, S. Weyers, V. Gerginov, N. Huntemann, C. Hagemann, A. Al-Masoudi, S. Häfner, S. Vogt, U. Sterr, C. Lisdat: A strontium lattice clock with stem:[3 " times "xx 10^(−17)] inaccuracy and its frequency; _New J. Phys._ *16*, 073023 (2014)

* [[[targat,21]]], R. Le Targat, L. Lorini, Y. Le Coq, M. Zawada, J. Guéna, M. Abgrall, M. Gurov, P. Rosenbusch, D. G. Rovera, B. Nagórny, R. Gartman, P. G. Westergaard, M. E. Tobar, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, A. Clairon, S. Bize, P. Laurent, P. Lemonde, J. Lodewyck: Experimental realization of an optical second with strontium lattice clocks; _Nature Commun._ *4*, 2109 (2013)

* [[[lodewyck,22]]], J. Lodewyck, S. Bilicki, E. Bookjans, J.-L. Robyr, C. Shi, G. Vallet, R. Le Targat, D. Nicolodi, Y. Le Coq, J. Guéna, M. Abgrall, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize: Optical to microwave clock frequency ratios with a nearly continuous strontium optical lattice clock; _Metrologia_ *53*, 1123 (2016)

* [[[grebing,23]]], C. Grebing, A. Al-Masoudi, S. Dörscher, S. Häfner, V. Gerginov, S. Weyers, B. Lipphardt, F. Riehle, U. Sterr, C. Lisdat: Realization of a timescale with an accurate optical lattice clock; _Optica_ *3*, 563 (2016)

* [[[hachisu-abs-freq,24]]], H. Hachisu, G. Petit, G., T. Ido: Absolute frequency measurement with uncertainty below stem:[1 xx 10^(−15)] using International Atomic Time; _Appl. Phys. B_ *123*, 34 (2017)

* [[[hachisu-si,25]]], H. Hachisu, G. Petit, F. Nakagawa, Y. Hanado, T. Ido: SI-traceable measurement of an optical frequency at the low 10^−16^ level without a local primary standard; _Optics Express_ *25*, 8511 (2017)

* [[[chwalla,26]]], M. Chwalla, J. Benhelm, K. Kim, G. Kirchmair, T. Monz, M. Riebe, P. Schindler, A. S. Villar, W. Hänsel, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt, M. Abgrall, G. Santarelli, G. D. Rovera, Ph. Laurent: Absolute Frequency Measurement of the ^40^Ca^+^ 4s ^2^S~1/2~ -3d ^2^D~5/2~ Clock Transition; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *102*, 023002 (2009)

* [[[matsubara,27]]], K. Matsubara, H. Hachisu, Y. Li, S. Nagano, C. Locke, A. Nogami, M. Kajita, K. Hayasaka, T. Ido, and M. Hosokawa: Direct comparison of a Ca^+^ single-ion clock against a Sr lattice clock to verify the absolute frequency measurement; _Optics Express_ *20*, 22034 (2012)

* [[[huang,28]]], Y. Huang, H. Guan, P. Liu, W. Bian, L. Ma, K. Liang, T. Li, K. Gao: Frequency Comparison of Two ^40^Ca^+^ Optical Clocks with an Uncertainty at the 10^-17^ Level; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *116*, 013001 (2016)

* [[[lne-syrte,29]]], LNE-SYRTE TAI data; MJD 55954-57867 (Jan 2012 – April 2017); submitted on request of the CCL-CCTF WGFS by J. Guena on 10 May 2017

* [[[ovchinnikov,30]]], Y. B. Ovchinnikov, K. Szymaniec and S. Edris: Measurement of rubidium ground-state hyperfine transition frequency using atomic fountains; _Metrologia_ *52*, 595 (2015)

* [[[guena,31]]], J. Guéna, S. Weyers, M. Abgrall, C. Grebing, V. Gerginov, P. Rosenbusch, S. Bize, B. Lipphardt, H. Denker, N. Quintin, S. M. F. Raupach, D. Nicolodi, F. Stefani, N. Chiodo, S. Koke, A. Kuhl, F. Wiotte, F. Meynadier, E. Camisard, C. Chardonnet, Y. Le Coq, M. Lours, G. Santarelli, A. Amy-Klein, R. Le Targat, O. Lopez, P. E. Pottie, G. Grosche: First international comparison of fountain primary frequency standards via a long distance optical fiber link; _Metrologia_ *54*, 348 (2017)

* [[[yamanaka,32]]],  K. Yamanaka, N. Ohmae, I. Ushijima, M. Takamoto and H. Katori: Frequency Ratio of ^199^Hg and ^87^Sr Optical Lattice Clocks beyond the SI Limit; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *114*, 230801 (2015)

* [[[akamatsu-freq,33]]], D. Akamatsu, M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, T. Tanabe, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong: Frequency ratio measurement of ^171^Yb and ^87^Sr optical lattice clocks; _Optics Express_ *22*, 7898 (2014)

* [[[akamatsu-errata,34]]], D. Akamatsu, M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, K. Hosaka, T. Tanabe, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong: Errata: Frequency ratio measurement of ^171^Yb and ^87^Sr optical lattice clocks; _Optics Express_ *22*, 32199 (2014)

* [[[takamoto,35]]], M. Takamoto, I. Ushijima, M. Das, N. Nemitz, T. Ohkubo, K. Yamanaka, N. Ohmae, T. Takano, T. Akatsuka, A. Yamaguchi, H. Katori: Frequency ratios of Sr, Yb, and Hg based optical lattice clocks and their applications; _C. R. Physique_ *16*, 489 (2015)

* [[[nemitz,36]]], N. Nemitz, T. Ohkubo, M. Takamoto, I. Ushijima, M. Das, N. Ohmae, H. Katori: Frequency ratio of Yb and Sr clocks with stem:[5 xx 10^(−17)] uncertainty at 150 seconds averaging time; _Nature Photon._ *10*, 258 (2016)

* [[[takano,37]]], T. Takano, R. Mizushima, H. Katori: Precise determination of the isotope shift of ^88^Sr - ^87^Sr optical lattice clock by sharing perturbations; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *10*, 072801 (2017)

* [[[kohno,38]]], T. Kohno, M. Yasuda, K. Hosaka, H. Inaba, Y. Nakajima, F. L. Hong: One-Dimensional Optical Lattice Clock with a Fermionic ^171^Yb Isotope; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *2*, 072501 (2009)

* [[[yasuda,39]]], M. Yasuda, H. Inaba, T. Kohno, T. Tanabe, Y. Nakajima, K. Hosaka, D. Akamatsu, A. Onae, T. Suzuyama, M. Amemiya, F.-L. Hong: Improved Absolute Frequency Measurement of the ^171^Yb Optical Lattice Clock towards a Candidate for the Redefinition of the Second; _Appl. Phys. Express_ *5*, 102401 (2012).

* [[[lemke,40]]], N. D. Lemke, A. D. Ludlow, Z.W. Barber, T. M. Fortier, S.A. Diddams, Y. Jiang, S. R. Jefferts, T. P. Heavner, T. E. Parker, and C.W. Oates: Spin-½ Optical Lattice Clock; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *103*, 063001 (2009)

* [[[park,41]]], C. Y. Park, D. H. Yu, W.-K. Lee, S. E. Park, E. B. Kim, S. K. Lee, J. W. Cho, T. H. Yoon, J. Mun, S. J. Park, T. Y. Kwon and S.-B. Lee: Absolute frequency measurement of ^1^S~0~(F=½)-^3^P~0~(F=½) transition of ^171^Yb atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice at KRISS; _Metrologia_ *50*, 119-128 (2013)

* [[[pizzocaro,42]]], M. Pizzocaro, P. Thoumany, B. Rauf, F. Bregolin, G. Milani, C. Clivati, G. A. Costanzo, F. Levi, D. Calonico: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^1^S~0~-^3^P~0~ transition of ^171^Yb; _Metrologia_ *54*, 102 – 112 (2017)

* [[[kim,43]]], H. Kim, M.-S. Heo, W.-K. Lee, C.Y. Park, H.-G. Hong, S.-W. Hwang and D.-H. Yu: Improved absolute frequency measurement of the ^171^Yb optical lattice clock at KRISS relative to the SI second; _Jpn. J. Appl. Phys._ *56* 050302 (2017)
