sources/rec-values/199Hg_1065THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2013-06
:revdate: 2013-07
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Mercury 199 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1065" THz"])

*^199^Hg^+^ ion, 5d^10^6s ^2^S~1/2~ – 5d^9^6s^2^ ^2^D~5/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2013>> of the frequency:

_f_(^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 1064721609899145.30 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 281568867.5919685 " fm"]

with a relative uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

This radiation was already endorsed as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: f(^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 1064721609899145.30 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_(^199^Hg^+^) / Hz | _u_ / Hz | source data
| stem:[1064721609899145.30] | 0.69 | <<stalnaker>>
|===

As this value was issued from only one laboratory the CCTF considered it prudent to estimate a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2013,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 1(CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies.

* [[[stalnaker,2]]], J.E. Stalnaker, S.A. Diddams, T.M. Fortier, K. Kim, L. Hollberg, J.C. Bergquist, W.M. Itano, M.J. Delany, L. Lorini, W.H. Oskay, T.P. Heavner, S.R. Jefferts, F. Levi, T.E. Parker and J. Shirley: Optical-to-microwave frequency comparison with fractional uncertainty of 10^−15^, _Appl. Phys. B_, *89*, 167 (2007).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/199Hg_1065THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Mercury 199 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1065" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2013-06
:revdate: 2013-07
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Mercury 199 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1065" THz"])

*^199^Hg^+^ ion, 5d^10^6s ^2^S~1/2~ – 5d^9^6s^2^ ^2^D~5/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2013>> of the frequency:

_f_(^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 1064721609899145.30 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 281568867.5919685 " fm"]

with a relative uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

This radiation was already endorsed as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: f(^199^Hg^+^) stem:[= 1064721609899145.30 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_(^199^Hg^+^) / Hz | _u_ / Hz | source data
| stem:[1064721609899145.30] | 0.69 | <<stalnaker>>
|===

As this value was issued from only one laboratory the CCTF considered it prudent to estimate a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2013,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 1(CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies.

* [[[stalnaker,2]]], J.E. Stalnaker, S.A. Diddams, T.M. Fortier, K. Kim, L. Hollberg, J.C. Bergquist, W.M. Itano, M.J. Delany, L. Lorini, W.H. Oskay, T.P. Heavner, S.R. Jefferts, F. Levi, T.E. Parker and J. Shirley: Optical-to-microwave frequency comparison with fractional uncertainty of 10^−15^, _Appl. Phys. B_, *89*, 167 (2007).
