sources/rec-values/27Al_1121THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2013-06
:revdate: 2013-07
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Aluminium 27 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1121" THz"])

*^27^Al^+^ ion, 3__s__^2^ ^1^S~0~ – 3__s__3__p__ ^3^P~0~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2013>> of the frequency

_f_(^27^Al^\+^) stem:[= 1121015393207857.3 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^27^Al^+^) stem:[= 267429385.730489 " fm"],

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

This radiation was endorsed as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
_f_(^27^Al^+^) stem:[= 1121015393207857.3 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c // y = 1.9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[%unnumbered]
[cols="<,^,^"]
|===
| _f_(^27^Al) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[1121015393207851] | 6 | <<rosenband2007>>
| stem:[1121015393207857.4] | 0.7 | <<rosenband2008>>
|===

by a weighted mean.

As this value was issued from only one laboratory, the CCTF considered it prudent to estimate a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2013,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 1(CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies.

* [[[rosenband2007,2]]], T. Rosenband, P. O. Schmidt, D. B. Hume, W. M. Itano, T. M. Fortier, J. E. Stalnaker, K. Kim, S. A. Diddams, J. C. J. Koelemeij, J. C. Bergquist, and D. J. Wineland, Observation of the ^1^S~0~ stem:[->] ^3^P~0~ Clock Transition in ^27^Al^+^, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *98*, 220801 (2007).

* [[[rosenband2008,3]]], T. Rosenband, D. B. Hume, P. O. Schmidt, C. W. Chou, A. Brusch, L. Lorini, W. H. Oskay, R.E. Drullinger, T. M. Fortier, J. E. Stalnaker, S. A. Diddams, W. C. Swann, N. R. Newbury, W. M. Itano, D. J. Wineland and J. C. Bergquist: Frequency Ratio of Al^\+^ and Hg^+^ Single-Ion Optical Clocks; Metrology at the 17^th^ Decimal Place, _Science_ *319*, 1808 (2008).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/27Al_1121THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Aluminium 27 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1121" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2013-06
:revdate: 2013-07
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Aluminium 27 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 1121" THz"])

*^27^Al^+^ ion, 3__s__^2^ ^1^S~0~ – 3__s__3__p__ ^3^P~0~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2013>> of the frequency

_f_(^27^Al^\+^) stem:[= 1121015393207857.3 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^27^Al^+^) stem:[= 267429385.730489 " fm"],

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

This radiation was endorsed as a secondary representation of the definition of the second.

=== Source data

[align=left]
_f_(^27^Al^+^) stem:[= 1121015393207857.3 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c // y = 1.9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[%unnumbered]
[cols="<,^,^"]
|===
| _f_(^27^Al) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[1121015393207851] | 6 | <<rosenband2007>>
| stem:[1121015393207857.4] | 0.7 | <<rosenband2008>>
|===

by a weighted mean.

As this value was issued from only one laboratory, the CCTF considered it prudent to estimate a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.9 xx 10^(-15)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2013,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 1(CI-2013): Updates to the list of standard frequencies.

* [[[rosenband2007,2]]], T. Rosenband, P. O. Schmidt, D. B. Hume, W. M. Itano, T. M. Fortier, J. E. Stalnaker, K. Kim, S. A. Diddams, J. C. J. Koelemeij, J. C. Bergquist, and D. J. Wineland, Observation of the ^1^S~0~ stem:[->] ^3^P~0~ Clock Transition in ^27^Al^+^, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *98*, 220801 (2007).

* [[[rosenband2008,3]]], T. Rosenband, D. B. Hume, P. O. Schmidt, C. W. Chou, A. Brusch, L. Lorini, W. H. Oskay, R.E. Drullinger, T. M. Fortier, J. E. Stalnaker, S. A. Diddams, W. C. Swann, N. R. Newbury, W. M. Itano, D. J. Wineland and J. C. Bergquist: Frequency Ratio of Al^\+^ and Hg^+^ Single-Ion Optical Clocks; Metrology at the 17^th^ Decimal Place, _Science_ *319*, 1808 (2008).
