sources/rec-values/88Sr_445THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2017-06
:revdate: 2018-04
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Strontium 88 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 445" THz"])

*^88^Sr^+^, 5s ^2^S~1/2~ – 4d ^2^D~5/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cctf21>> of the frequency in the CIPM List of Frequencies

_f_(^88^Sr^+^) stem:[= 444779044095486.5 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^88^Sr^+^) = 674025590.863134 fm,

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−15)].

This radiation was endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second <<ci2006>>.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(^88^Sr^+^) stem:[= 444779044095486.5 " Hz"]
With relative standard uncertainty:: stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−15)]
calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_(^88^Sr^+^) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[444779044095484.6] | 1.5 | <<margolis>>
| stem:[444779044095484] | 15 | <<dube2005>>
| stem:[444779044095485.5] | 0.9 | <<madej>>
| stem:[444779044095486.71] | 0.24 | <<barwood>> footnote:[Since the result is largely dominated by the single measurement of ref. <<barwood>>, the final uncertainty has been increased by a factor of three following the procedures outlined in ref. <<riehle>>.]
| stem:[444779044095485.27] | 0.75 | <<dube2017>>
|===

as a weighted mean of the above values.


[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cctf21,1]]], Consultative Committee for Time and Frequency (CCTF): Report of the 21st meeting (8-9 June 2017) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures; https://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CC/CCTF/CCTF21.pdf

* [[[ci2006,2]]], CIPM Recommendation 1 (CI-2006): RECOMMENDATION 1 (CI-2006): Concerning secondary representations of the second https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPMOutcomes/CI-2006-Recommendation-1.pdf

* [[[margolis,3]]], H. S. Margolis, G.P. Barwood, G. Huang, H. A. Klein, S. N. Lea, K. Szymaniec, P. Gill: Hertz-Level Measurement of the Optical Clock Frequency in a Single ^88^Sr^+^ Ion; _Science_ *306* 1355 - 1358 (2004)

* [[[dube2005,4]]], P. Dubé, A. A. Madej, J. E. Bernard, L. Marmet, J.-S. Boulanger, S. Cundy: Electric Quadrupole Shift Cancellation in Single-ion Optical Frequency Standards; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *95* 033001-1-4 (2005)

* [[[madej,5]]], A.A. Madej, P. Dubé, Z. Zhu, J. E. Bernard, M. Gertsvolf: ^88^Sr^+^ 445-THz Single Ion Reference at the 10^−17^ Level via Control and Cancellation of Systematic Uncertainties and its Measurement against the SI Second; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *109*, 203002 (2012)

* [[[barwood,6]]], G. P. Barwood, G. Huang, H. A. Klein, L. A. M. Johnson, S. A. King, H. S. Margolis, K. Szymaniec, P. Gill: Agreement between two ^88^Sr^+^ optical clocks to 4 parts in 1017; _Phys. Rev. A_ *89*, 050501 (2014)

* [[[dube2017,7]]], P. Dubé, J. Bernard, M. Gertsvolf: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^88^Sr^+^ clock transition using a GPS link to the SI second; _Metrologia_ *54*, 290 - 298 (2017)

* [[[riehle,8]]], F. Riehle, P. Gill, F. Arias, L. Robertsson: The CIPM List of Recommended Frequency Standard Values: Guidelines and Procedures; _Metrologia_ *55*, 188 - 200 (2018)

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/88Sr_445THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Strontium 88 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 445" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2017-06
:revdate: 2018-04
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Strontium 88 Ion (stem:[f ~~ 445" THz"])

*^88^Sr^+^, 5s ^2^S~1/2~ – 4d ^2^D~5/2~ unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cctf21>> of the frequency in the CIPM List of Frequencies

_f_(^88^Sr^+^) stem:[= 444779044095486.5 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^88^Sr^+^) = 674025590.863134 fm,

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−15)].

This radiation was endorsed by the CIPM as a secondary representation of the definition of the second <<ci2006>>.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: _f_(^88^Sr^+^) stem:[= 444779044095486.5 " Hz"]
With relative standard uncertainty:: stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−15)]
calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_(^88^Sr^+^) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[444779044095484.6] | 1.5 | <<margolis>>
| stem:[444779044095484] | 15 | <<dube2005>>
| stem:[444779044095485.5] | 0.9 | <<madej>>
| stem:[444779044095486.71] | 0.24 | <<barwood>> footnote:[Since the result is largely dominated by the single measurement of ref. <<barwood>>, the final uncertainty has been increased by a factor of three following the procedures outlined in ref. <<riehle>>.]
| stem:[444779044095485.27] | 0.75 | <<dube2017>>
|===

as a weighted mean of the above values.


[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cctf21,1]]], Consultative Committee for Time and Frequency (CCTF): Report of the 21st meeting (8-9 June 2017) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures; https://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CC/CCTF/CCTF21.pdf

* [[[ci2006,2]]], CIPM Recommendation 1 (CI-2006): RECOMMENDATION 1 (CI-2006): Concerning secondary representations of the second https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPMOutcomes/CI-2006-Recommendation-1.pdf

* [[[margolis,3]]], H. S. Margolis, G.P. Barwood, G. Huang, H. A. Klein, S. N. Lea, K. Szymaniec, P. Gill: Hertz-Level Measurement of the Optical Clock Frequency in a Single ^88^Sr^+^ Ion; _Science_ *306* 1355 - 1358 (2004)

* [[[dube2005,4]]], P. Dubé, A. A. Madej, J. E. Bernard, L. Marmet, J.-S. Boulanger, S. Cundy: Electric Quadrupole Shift Cancellation in Single-ion Optical Frequency Standards; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *95* 033001-1-4 (2005)

* [[[madej,5]]], A.A. Madej, P. Dubé, Z. Zhu, J. E. Bernard, M. Gertsvolf: ^88^Sr^+^ 445-THz Single Ion Reference at the 10^−17^ Level via Control and Cancellation of Systematic Uncertainties and its Measurement against the SI Second; _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *109*, 203002 (2012)

* [[[barwood,6]]], G. P. Barwood, G. Huang, H. A. Klein, L. A. M. Johnson, S. A. King, H. S. Margolis, K. Szymaniec, P. Gill: Agreement between two ^88^Sr^+^ optical clocks to 4 parts in 1017; _Phys. Rev. A_ *89*, 050501 (2014)

* [[[dube2017,7]]], P. Dubé, J. Bernard, M. Gertsvolf: Absolute frequency measurement of the ^88^Sr^+^ clock transition using a GPS link to the SI second; _Metrologia_ *54*, 290 - 298 (2017)

* [[[riehle,8]]], F. Riehle, P. Gill, F. Arias, L. Robertsson: The CIPM List of Recommended Frequency Standard Values: Guidelines and Procedures; _Metrologia_ *55*, 188 - 200 (2018)
