sources/rec-values/C2H2_1-54mum.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2007-10
:revdate: 2012-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Acetylene (stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"])

*Absorbing molecule ^13^C~2~H~2~, P(16) (stem:[nu_1+nu_3]) transition*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 194369569384" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 1542383712.38" fm"]

* with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[2.6 xx 10^(-11)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized using the third harmonic detection technique to an external ^13^C~2~H~2~ cell within an enhancement cavity and subject to the following conditions:
* C~2~H~2~-pressure stem:[(3 +- 2)" Pa"];
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak stem:[(1 +- 0.5)" MHz"] footnote:[For the specification of operating conditions, such as temperature, modulation width and laser power, the symbols ± refer to a tolerance, not an uncertainty.];
* one-way intracavity beam power density of stem:[(25 +- 20)" W cm"^(-2)]

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 194369569384(5)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 2.6 xx 10^(-11)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 1542383712.38(4)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 2.6 xx 10^(-11)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data

| stem:[194369569384.875] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(-11)] | <<balling>>
| stem:[194369569383.5] | stem:[6.7 xx 10^(12)] | <<jiang>>
| stem:[194369569386.4] | stem:[5.7 xx 10^(12)] | <<edwards3>>
| stem:[194369569384] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(11)] | <<czajkowski>>
|===

In order to combine these measurements which were carried out with a variety of acetylene cell pressures, the values were converted to a common 3 Pa cell pressure by use of the pressure shift coefficients measured for each particular system, leading to the following values:

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data

| stem:[194369569384.6] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(-11)] | <<balling>>
| stem:[194369569383.3] | stem:[6.7 xx 10^(-12)] | <<jiang>>
| stem:[194369569385.5] | stem:[5.7 xx 10^(-12)] | <<edwards3>>
| stem:[194369569384] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(-11)] | <<czajkowski>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[f = 194369569384.3" kHz"]
|===

The recommended value by the CCL is the unweighted mean of these last four values, rounded to the nearest kHz. Given the good agreement between the different laboratories, the CCL decided to reduce the uncertainty from the 10 kHz 2003 value to 5kHz (stem:[2.6 xx 10^(-11)]), which corresponds approximately to the quadrature sum of the quoted uncertainties, then rounded up.

=== Frequency intervals of the other transitions of the band related to the recommended value

<<table1>> replaces that published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 177, and in _Metrologia_, 2003, *40*, 124.

* The notation for the transitions is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals were determined from the unweighted mean of the values given by three laboratories in references <<balling>>, <<jiang>>, <<edwards3>>, <<czajkowski>>, where available.
* The uncertainties were determined from the square root of the quadrature sum of individual line uncertainties divided by the number of laboratories contributing and then rounded.
* stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma] ).

[[table1]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda=1.54" "mu"m"] ^13^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3)] band
| J ^| stem:[f ("P(J)")- f ("P"(16)//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f ("R(J)")- f ("P"(16)//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 31 | stem:[–1236727330] | 5 | 0 | stem:[1219093122] | 1
| 30 | stem:[–1149564562] | 4 | 1 | stem:[1284956011] | 1
| 29 | stem:[–1063105009] | 3 | 2 | stem:[1350174198] | 1
| 28 | stem:[–977244288] | 3 | 3 | stem:[1414736584] | 1
| 27 | stem:[–892105380] | 1 | 4 | stem:[1478632192] | 1
| 26 | stem:[–807638070] | 1 | 5 | stem:[1541851517] | 1
| 25 | stem:[–723847084] | 1 | 6 | stem:[1604387136] | 1
| 24 | stem:[–640721967] | 1 | 7 | stem:[1666233736] | 1
| 23 | stem:[–558275721] | 1 | 8 | stem:[1727380519] | 1
| 22 | stem:[–476502654] | 1 | 9 | stem:[1787844397] | 1
| 21 | stem:[–3954028867] | 1 | 10 | stem:[1847604826] | 1
| 20 | stem:[–314976290] | 1 | 11 | stem:[1906665847] | 1
| 19 | stem:[–235222731] | 1 | 12 | stem:[1965025956] | 1
| 18 | stem:[–156142106] | 1 | 13 | stem:[2022683714] | 1
| 17 | stem:[–77734397] | 1 | 14 | stem:[2079635680] | 1
| 16 | 0.0 | — | 15 | stem:[2135883116] | 1
| 15 | stem:[77063007] | 1 | 16 | stem:[2191421970] | 1
| 14 | stem:[153451226] | 1 | 17 | stem:[2246250502] | 1
| 13 | stem:[229165964] | 1 | 18 | stem:[2300366567] | 1
| 12 | stem:[304206524] | 1 | 19 | stem:[2353767928] | 1
| 11 | stem:[378572272] | 1 | 20 | stem:[2406452321] | 1
| 10 | stem:[452257032] | 1 | 21 | stem:[2458417492] | 1
| 9 | stem:[525279212] | 1 | 22 | stem:[2509661432] | 1
| 8 | stem:[597619759] | 1 | 23 | stem:[2560176324] | 1
| 7 | stem:[669287337] | 1 | 24 | stem:[2609973044] | 1
| 6 | stem:[740285116] | 1 | 25 | stem:[2659039015] | 1
| 5 | stem:[810618380] | 1 | 26 | stem:[2707376844] | 1
| 4 | stem:[880294498] | 1 | 27 | stem:[2754934187] | 1
| 3 | stem:[949322304] | 1 | 28 | stem:[2801831908] | 2
| 2 | stem:[1017710757] | 1 | 29 | stem:[2847963516] | 2
| 1 | stem:[1085467073] | 1 | | |
6+| Frequency referenced to P(16) stem:[nu_1+nu_3], ^13^C~2~H~2~: stem:[f = 194369569384" kHz"]
|===
Refs. <<jiang>>, <<edwards3>>, <<czajkowski>>, <<madej>>

=== Absolute frequencies of transitions in other bands

Data were reported by only one laboratory. Consequently, the corresponding uncertainties were increased by a factor of three. In the following tables, the quoted uncertainty associated with each transition is the higher value of either the calculated uncertainty or the adopted uncertainty for the recommended transition P16 (5 kHz).

[[table2]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^13^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3 + nu_4 + nu_5)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 22 | stem:[194307400767] | 5 | 0 | stem:[195984590791] | 5
| 21 | stem:[194387420760] | 7 | 1 | stem:[196050630476] | 6
| 20 | stem:[194466700977] | 5 | 2 | stem:[196116121548] | 5
| 19 | stem:[194545255871] | 14 | 3 | stem:[196181059390] | 5
| 18 | stem:[194623100111] | 8 | 4 | stem:[196245438197] | 5
| 17 | stem:[194700248978] | 5 | 5 | stem:[196309250959] | 5
| 16 | stem:[194776717968] | 5 | 6 | stem:[196372489471] | 5
| 15 | stem:[194852522485] | 8 | 7 | stem:[196435144317] | 6
| 14 | stem:[194927677581] | 5 | 8 | stem:[196497204895] | 5
| 13 | stem:[195002197738] | 5 | 9 | stem:[196558659425] | 7
| 12 | stem:[195076096694] | 5 | 10 | stem:[196619494998] | 5
| 11 | stem:[195149387300] | 5 | 11 | stem:[196679697623] | 7
| 10 | stem:[195222081409] | 5 | 12 | stem:[196739252313] | 5
| 9 | stem:[195294189794] | 5 | 13 | stem:[196798143195] | 5
| 8 | stem:[195365722096] | 5 | 14 | stem:[196856353650] | 5
| 7 | stem:[195436686781] | 5 | 15 | stem:[196913866494] | 5
| 6 | stem:[195507091120] | 11 | 16 | stem:[196970664190] | 5
| 5 | stem:[195576941187] | 10 | 17 | stem:[197026729110] | 9
| 4 | stem:[195646241847] | 7 | 18 | stem:[197082043836] | 9
| 3 | stem:[195714996769] | 5 | 19 | stem:[197136591576] | 9
| 2 | stem:[195783208426] | 5 | 20 | stem:[197190355743] | 9
| 1 | stem:[195850878107] | 13 | | |
|===
Refs. <<edwards3>>


[[table3]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^12^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 31 | stem:[194018374094] | 12 | 0 | stem:[196487319562] | 5
| 30 | stem:[194111459735] | 6 | 1 | stem:[196696652918] | 6
| 29 | stem:[194203815938] | 5 | 2 | stem:[196764884467] | 9
| 28 | stem:[194295440629] | 6 | 3 | stem:[196832341007] | 5
| 27 | stem:[194386332284] | 6 | 4 | stem:[196899021426] | 8
| 26 | stem:[194476488865] | 7 | 5 | stem:[196964924625] | 5
| 25 | stem:[194565910191] | 5 | 6 | stem:[197030049517] | 6
| 24 | stem:[194654593133] | 7 | 7 | stem:[197094395033] | 5
| 23 | stem:[194742536723] | 5 | 8 | stem:[197157960117] | 5
| 22 | stem:[194829739418] | 6 | 9 | stem:[197220743737] | 5
| 21 | stem:[194916199701] | 6 | 10 | stem:[197282744858] | 5
| 20 | stem:[195001916075] | 5 | 11 | stem:[197343962482] | 5
| 19 | stem:[195086887065] | 5 | 12 | stem:[197404395609] | 9
| 18 | stem:[195171111207] | 5 | 13 | stem:[197464043280] | 7
| 17 | stem:[195254587067] | 8 | 14 | stem:[197522904510] | 5
| 16 | stem:[195337313210] | 6 | 15 | stem:[197580978379] | 5
| 15 | stem:[195419288236] | 6 | 16 | stem:[197638263952] | 8
| 14 | stem:[195500510746] | 9 | 17 | stem:[197694760326] | 5
| 13 | stem:[195580979370] | 10 | 18 | stem:[197750466614] | 5
| 12 | stem:[195660692742] | 9 | 19 | stem:[197805381943] | 5
| 11 | stem:[195739649524] | 9 | 20 | stem:[197859505462] | 5
| 10 | stem:[195817848379] | 11 | 21 | stem:[197912836343] | 6
| 9 | stem:[195895288002] | 8 | 22 | stem:[197965373772] | 6
| 8 | stem:[195971967085] | 7 | 23 | stem:[198017116975] | 5
| 7 | stem:[196047884351] | 9 | 24 | stem:[198068064596] | 6
| 6 | stem:[196123038520] | 5 | 25 | stem:[198118217440] | 5
| 5 | stem:[196197428347] | 10 | 26 | stem:[198167573369] | 5
| 4 | stem:[196271052580] | 5 | 27 | stem:[198216132108] | 6
| 3 | stem:[196343910002] | 8 | 28 | stem:[198263892859] | 17
| 2 | stem:[196415999395] | 5 | 29 | stem:[198310855386] | 7
| 1 | stem:[196487319562] | 5 | 30 | stem:[198357019564] | 27
| | | | 31 | stem:[198402374897] | 14
|===

The values in this table have been updated <<ccl13>> after a recommendation of the CIPM <<ci2007>> and have replaced the data from <<edwards6>>.

[[table4]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^12^C~2~HD stem:[(2nu_1)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 27 | stem:[195083584556] | 5 | 0 | stem:[197004767626] | 5
| 26 | stem:[195161449715] | 5 | 1 | stem:[197062611545] | 5
| 25 | stem:[195238655952] | 5 | 2 | stem:[197119660023] | 5
| 24 | stem:[195315202227] | 5 | 3 | stem:[197175921813] | 5
| 23 | stem:[195391087967] | 5 | 4 | stem:[197231407145] | 5
| 22 | stem:[195466309716] | 5 | 5 | stem:[197286126795] | 5
| 21 | stem:[195540867837] | 5 | 6 | stem:[197340091336] | 5
| 20 | stem:[195614760669] | 5 | 7 | stem:[197393310618] | 5
| 19 | stem:[195687985368] | 5 | 8 | stem:[197445793469] | 5
| 18 | stem:[195760540274] | 5 | 9 | stem:[197497547587] | 5
| 17 | stem:[195832422908] | 5 | 10 | stem:[197548579273] | 5
| 16 | stem:[195903630364] | 5 | 11 | stem:[197598894432] | 5
| 15 | stem:[195974159502] | 5 | 12 | stem:[197648497165] | 5
| 14 | stem:[196044006224] | 5 | 13 | stem:[197697391167] | 5
| 13 | stem:[196113166245] | 5 | 14 | stem:[197745579093] | 5
| 12 | stem:[196181634239] | 5 | 15 | stem:[197793063418] | 5
| 11 | stem:[196249404477] | 5 | 16 | stem:[197839845665] | 5
| 10 | stem:[196316469424] | 5 | 17 | stem:[197885927073] | 5
| 9 | stem:[196382821148] | 5 | 18 | stem:[197931308538] | 5
| 8 | stem:[196448450320] | 5 | 19 | stem:[197975990084] | 5
| 7 | stem:[196513346479] | 5 | 20 | stem:[198019972926] | 5
| 6 | stem:[196577498143] | 5 | 21 | stem:[198063257107] | 5
| 5 | stem:[196640893107] | 5 | 22 | stem:[198105840645] | 5
| 4 | stem:[196703518964] | 5 | 23 | stem:[198147725370] | 5
| 3 | stem:[196765363848] | 5 | 24 | stem:[198188910239] | 5
| 2 | stem:[196826417377] | 5 | 25 | stem:[198229394675] | 5
| 1 | stem:[196886671626] | 5 | 26 | stem:[198269179255] | 5
| | | | 27 | stem:[198308261614] | 6
|===

The values in this table have been added after a recommendation of the CCL <<ccl13>> and the CIPM <<ci2007>>.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[balling,1]]], Balling P., Fischer M., Kubina Ph., Holzwarth R., Absolute Frequency Measurement of Wavelength Standard at 1542 nm: Acetylene-Stabilized DFB Laser, _Opt. Express_, *13* (23), pp. 9196-9201, 2005.

* [[[jiang,2]]], Jiang J., Onae A., Matsumoto H., Hong F.-L., Frequency Measurement of Acetylene-Stabilized Lasers using a Femtosecond Optical Comb Without Carrier-Envelope Offset Frequency Control, _Opt. Express_, *13* (6), pp. 1958-65, 2005.

* [[[edwards3,3]]], Edwards C. S., Margolis H. S., Barwood G. P., Lea S. N., Gill P., Rowley W. R. C., High-Accuracy Frequency Atlas of ^13^C~2~H~2~ in the stem:[1.5" "mu"m"] Region, _Appl. Phys. B_, *80*, pp. 977-83, 2005.

* [[[czajkowski,4]]], Czajkowski A., Bernard J. E., Madej A. A., Windeler R. S., Absolute Frequency Measurement of Acetylene Transitions in the Region of 1540 nm, _Appl. Phys. B_, *79*, pp. 45-50, 2004.

* [[[madej,5]]], Madej A. A., Bernard J. E., Alcock A. J., Czajkowski A., Chepurov S., Accurate Absolute Frequencies of the stem:[nu_1 + nu_3] Band of ^13^C~2~H~2~ Determined Using an Infrared Mode-Locked Cr:YAG Laser Frequency Comb, _J. Opt. Soc. Am. B_, *23* (4), pp. 741-49, 2006.

* [[[edwards6,6]]], Edwards C. S., Barwood G. P., Margolis H. S., Gill P., Rowley W. R. C., High-precision frequency measurements of the stem:[nu_1 + nu_3] combination band of ^12^C~2~H~2~ in the stem:[1.5" "mu"m"] region, _J. Mol. Spectr._, *234*, pp. 143-8, 2005.

* [[[ccl13,7]]], Report of the 13th meeting (13 – 14 September 2007) of the Consultative Committee for Length (CCL) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures p. 36 (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CCL13.pdf#page=36).

* [[[ci2007,8]]], Procès-Verbaux des Séances du Comité International des Poids et Mesures, 96th meeting (2007) 2008, Recommendation 1 (CI-2007): Revision of the _Mise en pratique_ list of recommended radiations. p. 185 (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM2007-EN.pdf#page=77).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/C2H2_1-54mum.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Acetylene (stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2007-10
:revdate: 2012-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Acetylene (stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"])

*Absorbing molecule ^13^C~2~H~2~, P(16) (stem:[nu_1+nu_3]) transition*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 194369569384" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 1542383712.38" fm"]

* with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[2.6 xx 10^(-11)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized using the third harmonic detection technique to an external ^13^C~2~H~2~ cell within an enhancement cavity and subject to the following conditions:
* C~2~H~2~-pressure stem:[(3 +- 2)" Pa"];
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak stem:[(1 +- 0.5)" MHz"] footnote:[For the specification of operating conditions, such as temperature, modulation width and laser power, the symbols ± refer to a tolerance, not an uncertainty.];
* one-way intracavity beam power density of stem:[(25 +- 20)" W cm"^(-2)]

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 194369569384(5)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 2.6 xx 10^(-11)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 1542383712.38(4)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 2.6 xx 10^(-11)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data

| stem:[194369569384.875] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(-11)] | <<balling>>
| stem:[194369569383.5] | stem:[6.7 xx 10^(12)] | <<jiang>>
| stem:[194369569386.4] | stem:[5.7 xx 10^(12)] | <<edwards3>>
| stem:[194369569384] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(11)] | <<czajkowski>>
|===

In order to combine these measurements which were carried out with a variety of acetylene cell pressures, the values were converted to a common 3 Pa cell pressure by use of the pressure shift coefficients measured for each particular system, leading to the following values:

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data

| stem:[194369569384.6] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(-11)] | <<balling>>
| stem:[194369569383.3] | stem:[6.7 xx 10^(-12)] | <<jiang>>
| stem:[194369569385.5] | stem:[5.7 xx 10^(-12)] | <<edwards3>>
| stem:[194369569384] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(-11)] | <<czajkowski>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[f = 194369569384.3" kHz"]
|===

The recommended value by the CCL is the unweighted mean of these last four values, rounded to the nearest kHz. Given the good agreement between the different laboratories, the CCL decided to reduce the uncertainty from the 10 kHz 2003 value to 5kHz (stem:[2.6 xx 10^(-11)]), which corresponds approximately to the quadrature sum of the quoted uncertainties, then rounded up.

=== Frequency intervals of the other transitions of the band related to the recommended value

<<table1>> replaces that published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 177, and in _Metrologia_, 2003, *40*, 124.

* The notation for the transitions is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals were determined from the unweighted mean of the values given by three laboratories in references <<balling>>, <<jiang>>, <<edwards3>>, <<czajkowski>>, where available.
* The uncertainties were determined from the square root of the quadrature sum of individual line uncertainties divided by the number of laboratories contributing and then rounded.
* stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma] ).

[[table1]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda=1.54" "mu"m"] ^13^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3)] band
| J ^| stem:[f ("P(J)")- f ("P"(16)//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f ("R(J)")- f ("P"(16)//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 31 | stem:[–1236727330] | 5 | 0 | stem:[1219093122] | 1
| 30 | stem:[–1149564562] | 4 | 1 | stem:[1284956011] | 1
| 29 | stem:[–1063105009] | 3 | 2 | stem:[1350174198] | 1
| 28 | stem:[–977244288] | 3 | 3 | stem:[1414736584] | 1
| 27 | stem:[–892105380] | 1 | 4 | stem:[1478632192] | 1
| 26 | stem:[–807638070] | 1 | 5 | stem:[1541851517] | 1
| 25 | stem:[–723847084] | 1 | 6 | stem:[1604387136] | 1
| 24 | stem:[–640721967] | 1 | 7 | stem:[1666233736] | 1
| 23 | stem:[–558275721] | 1 | 8 | stem:[1727380519] | 1
| 22 | stem:[–476502654] | 1 | 9 | stem:[1787844397] | 1
| 21 | stem:[–3954028867] | 1 | 10 | stem:[1847604826] | 1
| 20 | stem:[–314976290] | 1 | 11 | stem:[1906665847] | 1
| 19 | stem:[–235222731] | 1 | 12 | stem:[1965025956] | 1
| 18 | stem:[–156142106] | 1 | 13 | stem:[2022683714] | 1
| 17 | stem:[–77734397] | 1 | 14 | stem:[2079635680] | 1
| 16 | 0.0 | — | 15 | stem:[2135883116] | 1
| 15 | stem:[77063007] | 1 | 16 | stem:[2191421970] | 1
| 14 | stem:[153451226] | 1 | 17 | stem:[2246250502] | 1
| 13 | stem:[229165964] | 1 | 18 | stem:[2300366567] | 1
| 12 | stem:[304206524] | 1 | 19 | stem:[2353767928] | 1
| 11 | stem:[378572272] | 1 | 20 | stem:[2406452321] | 1
| 10 | stem:[452257032] | 1 | 21 | stem:[2458417492] | 1
| 9 | stem:[525279212] | 1 | 22 | stem:[2509661432] | 1
| 8 | stem:[597619759] | 1 | 23 | stem:[2560176324] | 1
| 7 | stem:[669287337] | 1 | 24 | stem:[2609973044] | 1
| 6 | stem:[740285116] | 1 | 25 | stem:[2659039015] | 1
| 5 | stem:[810618380] | 1 | 26 | stem:[2707376844] | 1
| 4 | stem:[880294498] | 1 | 27 | stem:[2754934187] | 1
| 3 | stem:[949322304] | 1 | 28 | stem:[2801831908] | 2
| 2 | stem:[1017710757] | 1 | 29 | stem:[2847963516] | 2
| 1 | stem:[1085467073] | 1 | | |
6+| Frequency referenced to P(16) stem:[nu_1+nu_3], ^13^C~2~H~2~: stem:[f = 194369569384" kHz"]
|===
Refs. <<jiang>>, <<edwards3>>, <<czajkowski>>, <<madej>>

=== Absolute frequencies of transitions in other bands

Data were reported by only one laboratory. Consequently, the corresponding uncertainties were increased by a factor of three. In the following tables, the quoted uncertainty associated with each transition is the higher value of either the calculated uncertainty or the adopted uncertainty for the recommended transition P16 (5 kHz).

[[table2]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^13^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3 + nu_4 + nu_5)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 22 | stem:[194307400767] | 5 | 0 | stem:[195984590791] | 5
| 21 | stem:[194387420760] | 7 | 1 | stem:[196050630476] | 6
| 20 | stem:[194466700977] | 5 | 2 | stem:[196116121548] | 5
| 19 | stem:[194545255871] | 14 | 3 | stem:[196181059390] | 5
| 18 | stem:[194623100111] | 8 | 4 | stem:[196245438197] | 5
| 17 | stem:[194700248978] | 5 | 5 | stem:[196309250959] | 5
| 16 | stem:[194776717968] | 5 | 6 | stem:[196372489471] | 5
| 15 | stem:[194852522485] | 8 | 7 | stem:[196435144317] | 6
| 14 | stem:[194927677581] | 5 | 8 | stem:[196497204895] | 5
| 13 | stem:[195002197738] | 5 | 9 | stem:[196558659425] | 7
| 12 | stem:[195076096694] | 5 | 10 | stem:[196619494998] | 5
| 11 | stem:[195149387300] | 5 | 11 | stem:[196679697623] | 7
| 10 | stem:[195222081409] | 5 | 12 | stem:[196739252313] | 5
| 9 | stem:[195294189794] | 5 | 13 | stem:[196798143195] | 5
| 8 | stem:[195365722096] | 5 | 14 | stem:[196856353650] | 5
| 7 | stem:[195436686781] | 5 | 15 | stem:[196913866494] | 5
| 6 | stem:[195507091120] | 11 | 16 | stem:[196970664190] | 5
| 5 | stem:[195576941187] | 10 | 17 | stem:[197026729110] | 9
| 4 | stem:[195646241847] | 7 | 18 | stem:[197082043836] | 9
| 3 | stem:[195714996769] | 5 | 19 | stem:[197136591576] | 9
| 2 | stem:[195783208426] | 5 | 20 | stem:[197190355743] | 9
| 1 | stem:[195850878107] | 13 | | |
|===
Refs. <<edwards3>>


[[table3]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^12^C~2~H~2~ stem:[(nu_1 + nu_3)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 31 | stem:[194018374094] | 12 | 0 | stem:[196487319562] | 5
| 30 | stem:[194111459735] | 6 | 1 | stem:[196696652918] | 6
| 29 | stem:[194203815938] | 5 | 2 | stem:[196764884467] | 9
| 28 | stem:[194295440629] | 6 | 3 | stem:[196832341007] | 5
| 27 | stem:[194386332284] | 6 | 4 | stem:[196899021426] | 8
| 26 | stem:[194476488865] | 7 | 5 | stem:[196964924625] | 5
| 25 | stem:[194565910191] | 5 | 6 | stem:[197030049517] | 6
| 24 | stem:[194654593133] | 7 | 7 | stem:[197094395033] | 5
| 23 | stem:[194742536723] | 5 | 8 | stem:[197157960117] | 5
| 22 | stem:[194829739418] | 6 | 9 | stem:[197220743737] | 5
| 21 | stem:[194916199701] | 6 | 10 | stem:[197282744858] | 5
| 20 | stem:[195001916075] | 5 | 11 | stem:[197343962482] | 5
| 19 | stem:[195086887065] | 5 | 12 | stem:[197404395609] | 9
| 18 | stem:[195171111207] | 5 | 13 | stem:[197464043280] | 7
| 17 | stem:[195254587067] | 8 | 14 | stem:[197522904510] | 5
| 16 | stem:[195337313210] | 6 | 15 | stem:[197580978379] | 5
| 15 | stem:[195419288236] | 6 | 16 | stem:[197638263952] | 8
| 14 | stem:[195500510746] | 9 | 17 | stem:[197694760326] | 5
| 13 | stem:[195580979370] | 10 | 18 | stem:[197750466614] | 5
| 12 | stem:[195660692742] | 9 | 19 | stem:[197805381943] | 5
| 11 | stem:[195739649524] | 9 | 20 | stem:[197859505462] | 5
| 10 | stem:[195817848379] | 11 | 21 | stem:[197912836343] | 6
| 9 | stem:[195895288002] | 8 | 22 | stem:[197965373772] | 6
| 8 | stem:[195971967085] | 7 | 23 | stem:[198017116975] | 5
| 7 | stem:[196047884351] | 9 | 24 | stem:[198068064596] | 6
| 6 | stem:[196123038520] | 5 | 25 | stem:[198118217440] | 5
| 5 | stem:[196197428347] | 10 | 26 | stem:[198167573369] | 5
| 4 | stem:[196271052580] | 5 | 27 | stem:[198216132108] | 6
| 3 | stem:[196343910002] | 8 | 28 | stem:[198263892859] | 17
| 2 | stem:[196415999395] | 5 | 29 | stem:[198310855386] | 7
| 1 | stem:[196487319562] | 5 | 30 | stem:[198357019564] | 27
| | | | 31 | stem:[198402374897] | 14
|===

The values in this table have been updated <<ccl13>> after a recommendation of the CIPM <<ci2007>> and have replaced the data from <<edwards6>>.

[[table4]]
[cols="<,>,<,<,^,<"]
|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 1.54" "mu"m"] ^12^C~2~HD stem:[(2nu_1)] band
| J ^| stem:[f (P(J))//"kHz"] ^| stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | J ^| stem:[f (R(J))//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| 27 | stem:[195083584556] | 5 | 0 | stem:[197004767626] | 5
| 26 | stem:[195161449715] | 5 | 1 | stem:[197062611545] | 5
| 25 | stem:[195238655952] | 5 | 2 | stem:[197119660023] | 5
| 24 | stem:[195315202227] | 5 | 3 | stem:[197175921813] | 5
| 23 | stem:[195391087967] | 5 | 4 | stem:[197231407145] | 5
| 22 | stem:[195466309716] | 5 | 5 | stem:[197286126795] | 5
| 21 | stem:[195540867837] | 5 | 6 | stem:[197340091336] | 5
| 20 | stem:[195614760669] | 5 | 7 | stem:[197393310618] | 5
| 19 | stem:[195687985368] | 5 | 8 | stem:[197445793469] | 5
| 18 | stem:[195760540274] | 5 | 9 | stem:[197497547587] | 5
| 17 | stem:[195832422908] | 5 | 10 | stem:[197548579273] | 5
| 16 | stem:[195903630364] | 5 | 11 | stem:[197598894432] | 5
| 15 | stem:[195974159502] | 5 | 12 | stem:[197648497165] | 5
| 14 | stem:[196044006224] | 5 | 13 | stem:[197697391167] | 5
| 13 | stem:[196113166245] | 5 | 14 | stem:[197745579093] | 5
| 12 | stem:[196181634239] | 5 | 15 | stem:[197793063418] | 5
| 11 | stem:[196249404477] | 5 | 16 | stem:[197839845665] | 5
| 10 | stem:[196316469424] | 5 | 17 | stem:[197885927073] | 5
| 9 | stem:[196382821148] | 5 | 18 | stem:[197931308538] | 5
| 8 | stem:[196448450320] | 5 | 19 | stem:[197975990084] | 5
| 7 | stem:[196513346479] | 5 | 20 | stem:[198019972926] | 5
| 6 | stem:[196577498143] | 5 | 21 | stem:[198063257107] | 5
| 5 | stem:[196640893107] | 5 | 22 | stem:[198105840645] | 5
| 4 | stem:[196703518964] | 5 | 23 | stem:[198147725370] | 5
| 3 | stem:[196765363848] | 5 | 24 | stem:[198188910239] | 5
| 2 | stem:[196826417377] | 5 | 25 | stem:[198229394675] | 5
| 1 | stem:[196886671626] | 5 | 26 | stem:[198269179255] | 5
| | | | 27 | stem:[198308261614] | 6
|===

The values in this table have been added after a recommendation of the CCL <<ccl13>> and the CIPM <<ci2007>>.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[balling,1]]], Balling P., Fischer M., Kubina Ph., Holzwarth R., Absolute Frequency Measurement of Wavelength Standard at 1542 nm: Acetylene-Stabilized DFB Laser, _Opt. Express_, *13* (23), pp. 9196-9201, 2005.

* [[[jiang,2]]], Jiang J., Onae A., Matsumoto H., Hong F.-L., Frequency Measurement of Acetylene-Stabilized Lasers using a Femtosecond Optical Comb Without Carrier-Envelope Offset Frequency Control, _Opt. Express_, *13* (6), pp. 1958-65, 2005.

* [[[edwards3,3]]], Edwards C. S., Margolis H. S., Barwood G. P., Lea S. N., Gill P., Rowley W. R. C., High-Accuracy Frequency Atlas of ^13^C~2~H~2~ in the stem:[1.5" "mu"m"] Region, _Appl. Phys. B_, *80*, pp. 977-83, 2005.

* [[[czajkowski,4]]], Czajkowski A., Bernard J. E., Madej A. A., Windeler R. S., Absolute Frequency Measurement of Acetylene Transitions in the Region of 1540 nm, _Appl. Phys. B_, *79*, pp. 45-50, 2004.

* [[[madej,5]]], Madej A. A., Bernard J. E., Alcock A. J., Czajkowski A., Chepurov S., Accurate Absolute Frequencies of the stem:[nu_1 + nu_3] Band of ^13^C~2~H~2~ Determined Using an Infrared Mode-Locked Cr:YAG Laser Frequency Comb, _J. Opt. Soc. Am. B_, *23* (4), pp. 741-49, 2006.

* [[[edwards6,6]]], Edwards C. S., Barwood G. P., Margolis H. S., Gill P., Rowley W. R. C., High-precision frequency measurements of the stem:[nu_1 + nu_3] combination band of ^12^C~2~H~2~ in the stem:[1.5" "mu"m"] region, _J. Mol. Spectr._, *234*, pp. 143-8, 2005.

* [[[ccl13,7]]], Report of the 13th meeting (13 – 14 September 2007) of the Consultative Committee for Length (CCL) to the International Committee for Weights and Measures p. 36 (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/CCL13.pdf#page=36).

* [[[ci2007,8]]], Procès-Verbaux des Séances du Comité International des Poids et Mesures, 96th meeting (2007) 2008, Recommendation 1 (CI-2007): Revision of the _Mise en pratique_ list of recommended radiations. p. 185 (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM2007-EN.pdf#page=77).
