sources/rec-values/Ca_657nm.adoc, before:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date:
:revdate:
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Calcium (stem:[lambda ~~ 657 nm])

*Absorbing atom ^40^Ca, ^1^S~0~ – ^3^P~1~; stem:[Delta m_"J" = "0 transition"]*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 455986240494140" Hz"] +
stem:[lambda = 657459439.291683" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.8 xx 10^(−14)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized to Ca atoms. The values correspond to the mean frequency of the two recoil-split components for atoms which are effectively stationary, i.e. the values are corrected for the second-order Doppler shift.


=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 455986240494140(8)" Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.8 xx 10^(-14)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 657459439.291683(12)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.8 xx 10^(-14)]

calculated from::

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_ / Hz | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[455986240494144] | stem:[1.2 xx 10^(−14)] | <<degenhardt>>
| stem:[455986240494135.8] | stem:[7.5 xx 10^(−15)] | <<wilpers2006>>, <<wilpers2007>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[f = 455986240494140" Hz"] |
|===

The CCL decided to adopt the unweighted mean of the two values, with an uncertainty of 8 Hz, equal to the difference between the values.


[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[degenhardt,1]]], Degenhardt C., Stoehr H., Lisdat Ch., Wilpers G., Schnatz H., Lipphardt B., Nazarova T., Pottie P.-E., Sterr U., Helmcke J., Riehle F., Calcium Optical Frequency Standard with Ultracold Atoms: Approaching 10-15 Relative Uncertainty, _Phys. Rev. A_, *72*, 062111/1-17, 2005.

* [[[wilpers2006,2]]], Wilpers G., Oates C. W., Hollberg L., Improved Uncertainty Budget for Optical Frequency Measurements with Microkelvin Neutral Atoms: Results for a High-Stability ^40^Ca Optical Frequency Standard, _Appl. Phys. B_ *85*, pp. 31-44, 2006.

* [[[wilpers2007,3]]], Wilpers G., Oates C. W., Diddams S. A., Bartels A., Fortier T M., Oskay W. H., Bergquist J. C., Jefferts S. R., Heavner T. P., Parker T. E., Hollberg L., Absolute Frequency Measurement of the Neutral ^40^Ca Optical Frequency Standard at 657 nm based on Microkelvin Atoms, _Metrologia_, *44*, pp. 146-151, 2007.

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/Ca_657nm.adoc, after:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Calcium (stem:[lambda ~~ 657 nm]) (2005)
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date:
:revdate:
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Calcium (stem:[lambda ~~ 657 nm])

*Absorbing atom ^40^Ca, ^1^S~0~ – ^3^P~1~; stem:[Delta m_"J" = "0 transition"]*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 455986240494140" Hz"] +
stem:[lambda = 657459439.291683" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.8 xx 10^(−14)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized to Ca atoms. The values correspond to the mean frequency of the two recoil-split components for atoms which are effectively stationary, i.e. the values are corrected for the second-order Doppler shift.


=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 455986240494140(8)" Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.8 xx 10^(-14)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 657459439.291683(12)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.8 xx 10^(-14)]

calculated from::

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| _f_ / Hz | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[455986240494144] | stem:[1.2 xx 10^(−14)] | <<degenhardt>>
| stem:[455986240494135.8] | stem:[7.5 xx 10^(−15)] | <<wilpers2006>>, <<wilpers2007>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[f = 455986240494140" Hz"] |
|===

The CCL decided to adopt the unweighted mean of the two values, with an uncertainty of 8 Hz, equal to the difference between the values.


[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[degenhardt,1]]], Degenhardt C., Stoehr H., Lisdat Ch., Wilpers G., Schnatz H., Lipphardt B., Nazarova T., Pottie P.-E., Sterr U., Helmcke J., Riehle F., Calcium Optical Frequency Standard with Ultracold Atoms: Approaching 10-15 Relative Uncertainty, _Phys. Rev. A_, *72*, 062111/1-17, 2005.

* [[[wilpers2006,2]]], Wilpers G., Oates C. W., Hollberg L., Improved Uncertainty Budget for Optical Frequency Measurements with Microkelvin Neutral Atoms: Results for a High-Stability ^40^Ca Optical Frequency Standard, _Appl. Phys. B_ *85*, pp. 31-44, 2006.

* [[[wilpers2007,3]]], Wilpers G., Oates C. W., Diddams S. A., Bartels A., Fortier T M., Oskay W. H., Bergquist J. C., Jefferts S. R., Heavner T. P., Parker T. E., Hollberg L., Absolute Frequency Measurement of the Neutral ^40^Ca Optical Frequency Standard at 657 nm based on Microkelvin Atoms, _Metrologia_, *44*, pp. 146-151, 2007.
