sources/rec-values/H_1233THz.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-en:
:title-fr:
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Hydrogen ^1^H Atom (stem:[f ~~ 1233" THz"])

*^1^H neutral atom, 1S – 2S unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cipm-rec2>> of the frequency:

_f_(^1^H) stem:[= 1233030706593514 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^1^H) stem:[= 243134624.626044 " fm"],

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[9 xx 10^(-15)].

NOTE: The 1S - 2S transition is excited by two photons of the frequency stem:[1233 " THz"]

=== Source data

Adopted value

[align=left]
_f_(^1^H) stem:[= 1233030706593514 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[cols="<,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| 2 × _f_(^1^H) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[2466061413187035] | 10 | <<parthey>>
| stem:[2466061413187018] | 11 | <<matveev>>
|===

as a weighted mean of the above values divided by two.

Given the noticeable drift of the values of the past measurements <<matveev>> and the fact that the values come from a single laboratory the CCTF considered it prudent to attribute an increased standard uncertainty by a factor of three.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cipm-rec2,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[parthey,2]]], C. G. Parthey, A. Matveev, J. Alnis, B. Bernhardt, A. Beyer, R. Holzwarth, A. Maistrou, R. Pohl, K. Predehl, T. Udem, T. Wilken, N. Kolachevsky, M. Abgrall, D. Rovera, C. Salomon, P. Laurent, and T. W. Hänsch: Improved Measurement of the Hydrogen 1S–2S Transition Frequency, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *107*, 203001 (2011).

* [[[matveev,3]]], A. Matveev, Ch. G. Parthey, K. Predehl, J. Alnis, A. Beyer, R. Holzwarth, Th. Udem, T. Wilken, N. Kolachevsky, M. Abgrall, D. Rovera, Ch. Salomon, Ph. Laurent, G. Grosche, O. Terra, Th. Legero, H. Schnatz, S. Weyers, B. Altschul, Th. W. Hänsch: Precision Measurement of the Hydrogen 1S-2S Frequency via a 920-km Fiber Link, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *110*, 230801 (2

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/H_1233THz.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Hydrogen ^1^H Atom (stem:[f ~~ 1233" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Hydrogen ^1^H Atom (stem:[f ~~ 1233" THz"])

*^1^H neutral atom, 1S – 2S unperturbed optical transition*

=== Recommended value <<cipm-rec2>> of the frequency:

_f_(^1^H) stem:[= 1233030706593514 " Hz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^1^H) stem:[= 243134624.626044 " fm"],

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[9 xx 10^(-15)].

NOTE: The 1S - 2S transition is excited by two photons of the frequency stem:[1233 " THz"]

=== Source data

Adopted value

[align=left]
_f_(^1^H) stem:[= 1233030706593514 " Hz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 9 xx 10^(-15)]

calculated from

[cols="<,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| 2 × _f_(^1^H) / Hz | stem:[u // "Hz"] | source data
| stem:[2466061413187035] | 10 | <<parthey>>
| stem:[2466061413187018] | 11 | <<matveev>>
|===

as a weighted mean of the above values divided by two.

Given the noticeable drift of the values of the past measurements <<matveev>> and the fact that the values come from a single laboratory the CCTF considered it prudent to attribute an increased standard uncertainty by a factor of three.

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[cipm-rec2,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[parthey,2]]], C. G. Parthey, A. Matveev, J. Alnis, B. Bernhardt, A. Beyer, R. Holzwarth, A. Maistrou, R. Pohl, K. Predehl, T. Udem, T. Wilken, N. Kolachevsky, M. Abgrall, D. Rovera, C. Salomon, P. Laurent, and T. W. Hänsch: Improved Measurement of the Hydrogen 1S–2S Transition Frequency, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *107*, 203001 (2011).

* [[[matveev,3]]], A. Matveev, Ch. G. Parthey, K. Predehl, J. Alnis, A. Beyer, R. Holzwarth, Th. Udem, T. Wilken, N. Kolachevsky, M. Abgrall, D. Rovera, Ch. Salomon, Ph. Laurent, G. Grosche, O. Terra, Th. Legero, H. Schnatz, S. Weyers, B. Altschul, Th. W. Hänsch: Precision Measurement of the Hydrogen 1S-2S Frequency via a 920-km Fiber Link, _Phys. Rev. Lett._ *110*, 230801 (2
