sources/rec-values/HeNe_633nm.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2007-10
:revdate: 2012-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Helium Neon Laser (unstabilized) (stem:[f ~~ 474" THz"])

*HeNe laser operating on the stem:[3s_2 -> 2p_4] transition*

=== CIPM recommended value <<ci2007>> of the frequency

stem:[f(HeNe_("unstabilised"))= 473.6127" THz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda(HeNe_("unstabilised"))= 632.9908" nm"] 

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.5 xx 10^(-6)] applies apply to the radiation in vacuum of an unstabilized helium-neon laser operating solely on the stem:[3s_2 -> 2p_4] transition, independent of the isotopic mixture of the neon.

*This wavelength (in vacuum) value was also recommended by CIPM 2007 as a Realization of the Definition of the Metre*

=== Source data

The source data are derived from an investigation carried out by the CCL and published in <<stone>>

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2007,1]]], Procès-Verbaux des Séances du Comité International des Poids et Mesures, 96th meeting (2007) 2009, Recommendation 2 (CI-2007): On the value and uncertainty of unstabilized He-Ne lasers, page 186. (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM2007-EN.pdf#page=78).

* [[[stone,2]]], J. A. Stone, J. E. Decker, P. Gill, P. Juncar, A. Lewis, G. D. Rovera, M. Viliesid: Advice from the CCL on the use of unstabilized lasers as standards of wavelength: the helium–neon laser at 633nm. _Metrologia_ *46*, 11–18
(2009).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/HeNe_633nm.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Helium Neon Laser (unstabilized) (stem:[f ~~ 474" THz"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2007-10
:revdate: 2012-08
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Helium Neon Laser (unstabilized) (stem:[f ~~ 474" THz"])

*HeNe laser operating on the stem:[3s_2 -> 2p_4] transition*

=== CIPM recommended value <<ci2007>> of the frequency

stem:[f(HeNe_("unstabilised"))= 473.6127" THz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda(HeNe_("unstabilised"))= 632.9908" nm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.5 xx 10^(-6)] applies apply to the radiation in vacuum of an unstabilized helium-neon laser operating solely on the stem:[3s_2 -> 2p_4] transition, independent of the isotopic mixture of the neon.

*This wavelength (in vacuum) value was also recommended by CIPM 2007 as a Realization of the Definition of the Metre*

=== Source data

The source data are derived from an investigation carried out by the CCL and published in <<stone>>

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2007,1]]], Procès-Verbaux des Séances du Comité International des Poids et Mesures, 96th meeting (2007) 2009, Recommendation 2 (CI-2007): On the value and uncertainty of unstabilized He-Ne lasers, page 186. (see e.g. http://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/CIPM2007-EN.pdf#page=78).

* [[[stone,2]]], J. A. Stone, J. E. Decker, P. Gill, P. Juncar, A. Lewis, G. D. Rovera, M. Viliesid: Advice from the CCL on the use of unstabilized lasers as standards of wavelength: the helium–neon laser at 633nm. _Metrologia_ *46*, 11–18
(2009).
