sources/rec-values/I2_531nm.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 531" nm"])

*Absorbing atom ^127^I~2~, a~1~ component, R(36) 32-0 transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>>

_f_(^127^I~2~) stem:[= 564074632.42 " MHz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda = 531476582.65 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1 xx 10^(-10)] applies to the radiation of a frequency-doubled diode DFB laser, stabilized with an iodine cell external to the laser with the following parameters:

* cold-finger temperature stem:[(25 +- 0.5)"°C"] (corresponding to the iodine pressure stem:[p = 41" Pa"])
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak, stem:[(12 +- 1)" MHz"] for stem:[3f] detection cases;
* saturating beam intensity of stem:[12.7" mW "(+10%)] at a beam diameter of 1 mm

=== Source data

Adopted value:: _f_ stem:[= 564074632.42 " MHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1 xx 10^(−10)]
taken from::

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[564074632419(8)] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−11)] | <<kobayashi>>
|===

This value was issued from only a single laboratory under conditions where strong linear absorption at Doppler centre occurs, thereby degrading the signal-to-noise level at this high iodine vapour pressure <<kobayashi>>. Thus, the CIPM following a recommendation of the CCL considered it prudent to enlarge the standard uncertainty by a factor of seven, and round to stem:[1 xx 10^(-10)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp
* [[[kobayashi,2]]], T. Kobayashi, D. Akamatsu, K. Hosaka, H. Inaba, S. Okubo, T. Tanabe, M. Yasuda, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong, Compact iodine-stabilized laser operating at 531 nm with stability at the 10^-12^ level and using a coin-sized laser module, _Optics Express_, *23*, 20749 (2015).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/I2_531nm.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 531" nm"])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 531" nm"])

*Absorbing atom ^127^I~2~, a~1~ component, R(36) 32-0 transition*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>>

_f_(^127^I~2~) stem:[= 564074632.42 " MHz"]

equivalent to

stem:[lambda = 531476582.65 " fm"]

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1 xx 10^(-10)] applies to the radiation of a frequency-doubled diode DFB laser, stabilized with an iodine cell external to the laser with the following parameters:

* cold-finger temperature stem:[(25 +- 0.5)"°C"] (corresponding to the iodine pressure stem:[p = 41" Pa"])
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak, stem:[(12 +- 1)" MHz"] for stem:[3f] detection cases;
* saturating beam intensity of stem:[12.7" mW "(+10%)] at a beam diameter of 1 mm

=== Source data

Adopted value:: _f_ stem:[= 564074632.42 " MHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1 xx 10^(−10)]
taken from::

[cols="^,^,^"]
[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[564074632419(8)] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−11)] | <<kobayashi>>
|===

This value was issued from only a single laboratory under conditions where strong linear absorption at Doppler centre occurs, thereby degrading the signal-to-noise level at this high iodine vapour pressure <<kobayashi>>. Thus, the CIPM following a recommendation of the CCL considered it prudent to enlarge the standard uncertainty by a factor of seven, and round to stem:[1 xx 10^(-10)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp
* [[[kobayashi,2]]], T. Kobayashi, D. Akamatsu, K. Hosaka, H. Inaba, S. Okubo, T. Tanabe, M. Yasuda, A. Onae, F.-L. Hong, Compact iodine-stabilized laser operating at 531 nm with stability at the 10^-12^ level and using a coin-sized laser module, _Optics Express_, *23*, 20749 (2015).
