sources/rec-values/I2_515nm.adoc, before:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 515 nm])

*Absorbing molecule ^127^I~2~, a~3~ component, P(13) 43-0 transition* footnote:[All transitions in I~2~ refer to the B^3^Π 0~u~^\+^ – X^1^ Σ~g~^+^ system.]

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 514673466.368" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[8.6 xx 10^(−12)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized with an iodine cell external to the laser, and subject to the conditions:

* cold point temperature stem:[(–5 +- 2)" °C"], corresponding to a I~2~ pressure of stem:[(2.4 +- 0.5)" Pa"] footnote:[For the specification of operating conditions, such as temperature, modulation width and laser power, the symbols ± refer to a tolerance, not an uncertainty.];
* saturating beam intensity stem:[<40" mW cm"^(-2)].

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 582490603442 (5) " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 8.6 xx 10^(−12)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 514673466.368 (4) " fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 8.6 xx 10^(−12)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[582490603378.8] | stem:[2.6 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[582490603447.3] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−12)] | <<goncharov>>
|===

When corrected for pressure shifts, there is good agreement to 0.4 kHz between NIST-JILA and LPL values, bearing in mind that the iodine cell arrangement is significantly different for each case:

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[582490603441.8] | stem:[2.6 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[582490603442.6] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−12)] | <<goncharov>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[582490603442.2]
|===

The CCL recommended value was chosen as the mean of the two values, rounded to 582490603442 kHz, with an uncertainty reduced from the 10 kHz 2003 value to 5 kHz.

=== Absolute frequency of the other transitions related to those adopted as recommended and frequency intervals between transitions and hyperfine components

These tables replace those published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 179-181 and Metrologia, 2003, *40*, 125-126.

The notation for the transitions and the components is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals are the weighted means of the values given in the references.

For the uncertainties, account has been taken of:

* the uncertainties given by the authors;
* the spread in the different determinations of a single component;
* the effect of any perturbing components;
* the difference between the calculated and the measured values.

In the tables, stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma]).

All transitions in molecular iodine refer to the B-X system.

|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ P(13) 43-0
| stem:[a_n] | stem:[[f(a_n) – f(a_3) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"] | stem:[a_n] | stem:[[f(a_n) – f(a_3) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"]

| stem:[a_1] | –131770 | 1 | stem:[a_(12)] | 435599 | 3
| stem:[a_2] | –59905 | 1 | stem:[a_(13)] | 499712 | 5
| stem:[a_3] | 0 | — | stem:[a_(14)] | 518000 | 1000
| stem:[a_4] | 76049 | 1 | stem:[a_(15)] | 587396 | 2
| stem:[a_5] | 203229 | 5 | stem:[a_(16)] | 616756 | 5
| stem:[a_6] | 240774 | 5 | stem:[a_(17)] | 660932 | 5
| stem:[a_7] | 255005 | 1 | stem:[a_(18)] | 740000 | 1000
| stem:[a_8] | 338699 | 5 | stem:[a_(19)] | 742000 | 1000
| stem:[a_9] | 349717 | 5 | stem:[a_(20)] | 757631 | 10
| stem:[a_(10)] | 369000 | 1000 | stem:[a_(21)] | 817337 | 5
| stem:[a_(11)] | 393962 | 2 | | |
6+| Frequency referenced to a~3~, P(13) 43-0, ^127^I~2~: f = 582490603442 kHz <<ci2003>>
|===
Ref. <<hackel>>, <<camy>>, <<borde>>, <<spieweck>>


|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ (R15) 43-0
| stem:[b_n] | stem:[[f(b_n) – f(b_1) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"] | stem:[b_n] | stem:[[f(b_n) – f(b_1) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"]

| stem:[b_1] | 0 | — | stem:[b_(12)] | 566287 | 5
| stem:[b_2] | 69739 | 5 | stem:[b_(13)] | 630782 | 5
| stem:[b_3]  | 129155 | 5 | stem:[b_(14)] | 658178 | 5
| stem:[b_4]  | 217000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(15)] | 725166 | 5
| stem:[b_5]  | 335828 | 5 | stem:[b_(16)] | 739394 | 5
| stem:[b_6]  | 368000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(17)] | 791673 | 5
| stem:[b_7]  | 396442 | 5 | stem:[b_(18)] | 865523 | 5
| stem:[b_8]  | 471000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(19)] | 874840 | 5
| stem:[b_9]  | 472000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(20)] | 892895 | 10
| stem:[b_(10)]  | 500627 | 5 | stem:[b_(21)] | 947278 | 10
| stem:[b_(11) | 525207 | 5 | | |
6+a| Frequency referenced to:: stem:[a_n, P(13) 43-0, ^127^I~2~: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] <<ci2003>> +
stem:[f (a_1", P(13) 43-0)" – f(a_3", P(13) 43-0") = – 131770(1000)" kHz"] +
stem:[f (b_1", R(15) 43-0)" – f(a_1", P(13) 43-0") = 283835(5000)" kHz"] <<camy>>
|===
Ref. <<camy>>, <<borde>>


|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ R(98) 58-1
| stem:[d_n] | stem:[[f (d_n) – f (d_6)\]//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | stem:[d_n] | stem:[[f(d_n) – f(d_6)]\/"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| stem:[d_1] | –413488 | 5 | stem:[d_9] | 225980 | 5
| stem:[d_2] | –359553 | 5 | stem:[d_(10)] | 253000 | 1000
| stem:[d_3] | –194521 | 5 | stem:[d_(11)] | 254000 | 1000
| stem:[d_4] | –159158 | 5 | stem:[d_(12)] | 314131 | 5
| stem:[d_5] | –105769 | 5 | stem:[d_(13)] | 426691 | 5
| stem:[d_6] | 0 | — | stem:[d_(14)] | 481574 | 5
| stem:[d_7] | 172200 | 5 | stem:[d_(15)] | 510246 | 5
| stem:[d_8] | 200478 | 5 | | |
6+a| Frequency referenced to:: stem:[a_3", P(13) 43-0"], ^127^I~2~: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] <<ci2003>> +
stem:[f (d_6", R(98) "58-1) – f (a_3", P(13) 43-0") = –2100000(1000)" kHz"] <<forth>>
|===
Ref. <<borde>>, <<forth>>

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[jones,1]]], Jones R. J., Cheng W.-Y., Holman K. W., Chen L., Hall J. L., Ye J., Absolute-frequency measurement of the iodine-based length standard at 514.67 nm, _Appl. Phys_, 2002, *B 74* 597-601.

* [[[ci2003,2]]], Recommendation CCL 2c (_BIPM Com. Cons. Long._, 11th Meeting, 2003) adopted by the Comité International des Poids et Mesures at its 92nd Meeting as Recommendation 1 (CI-2003).

* [[[hackel,3]]], Hackel L. A., Casleton K. H., Kukolich S. G., Ezekiel S., Observation of Magnetic Octupole and Scalar Spin-Spin Interactions in I2 Using Laser Spectroscopy, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, 1975, *35*, 568-571.

* [[[camy,4]]], Camy G., _Thesis_, Université Paris-Nord, 1979.

* [[[borde,5]]], Bordé C. J., Camy G., Decomps B., Descoubes J.-P., High precision saturation spectroscopy of ^127^I~2~ with argon lasers at 5145 Å and 5017 Å : I - Main Resonances, _J. Phys._, 1981, *42*, 1393-1411.

* [[[spieweck,6]]], Spieweck F., Gläser M., Foth H.-J., Hyperfine Structure of the P(13), 43-0 Line of ^127^I~2~ at 514.5 nm, European Conference on Atomic Physics, Apr. 6-10, 1981, Heidelberg, _Europhysics Conference Abstracts_, *5A*, Part *I*, 325-326.

* [[[forth,7]]], Foth H. J., Spieweck F., Hyperfine Structure of the R(98), 58-1 Line of ^127^I~2~ at 514.5 nm, _Chem. Phys. Lett._, 1979, *65*, 347-352.

* [[[goncharov,8]]], Goncharov A., Amy-Klein A., Lopez O., Du Burck F., Chardonnet C., Absolute frequency measurement of the iodine-stabilized Ar^+^ laser at 514.6 nm using a femtosecond optical frequency comb, _Appl. Phys,_ *B 78*, 725-31, 2004.

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/I2_515nm.adoc, after:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 515 nm]) (2005)
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Iodine (stem:[lambda ~~ 515 nm])

*Absorbing molecule ^127^I~2~, a~3~ component, P(13) 43-0 transition* footnote:[All transitions in I~2~ refer to the B^3^Π 0~u~^\+^ – X^1^ Σ~g~^+^ system.]

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 514673466.368" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[8.6 xx 10^(−12)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized with an iodine cell external to the laser, and subject to the conditions:

* cold point temperature stem:[(–5 +- 2)" °C"], corresponding to a I~2~ pressure of stem:[(2.4 +- 0.5)" Pa"] footnote:[For the specification of operating conditions, such as temperature, modulation width and laser power, the symbols ± refer to a tolerance, not an uncertainty.];
* saturating beam intensity stem:[<40" mW cm"^(-2)].

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 582490603442 (5) " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 8.6 xx 10^(−12)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 514673466.368 (4) " fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 8.6 xx 10^(−12)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[582490603378.8] | stem:[2.6 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[582490603447.3] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−12)] | <<goncharov>>
|===

When corrected for pressure shifts, there is good agreement to 0.4 kHz between NIST-JILA and LPL values, bearing in mind that the iodine cell arrangement is significantly different for each case:

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[582490603441.8] | stem:[2.6 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[582490603442.6] | stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−12)] | <<goncharov>>
3+a| Unweighted mean:: stem:[582490603442.2]
|===

The CCL recommended value was chosen as the mean of the two values, rounded to 582490603442 kHz, with an uncertainty reduced from the 10 kHz 2003 value to 5 kHz.

=== Absolute frequency of the other transitions related to those adopted as recommended and frequency intervals between transitions and hyperfine components

These tables replace those published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 179-181 and Metrologia, 2003, *40*, 125-126.

The notation for the transitions and the components is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals are the weighted means of the values given in the references.

For the uncertainties, account has been taken of:

* the uncertainties given by the authors;
* the spread in the different determinations of a single component;
* the effect of any perturbing components;
* the difference between the calculated and the measured values.

In the tables, stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma]).

All transitions in molecular iodine refer to the B-X system.

|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ P(13) 43-0
| stem:[a_n] | stem:[[f(a_n) – f(a_3) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"] | stem:[a_n] | stem:[[f(a_n) – f(a_3) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"]

| stem:[a_1] | –131770 | 1 | stem:[a_(12)] | 435599 | 3
| stem:[a_2] | –59905 | 1 | stem:[a_(13)] | 499712 | 5
| stem:[a_3] | 0 | — | stem:[a_(14)] | 518000 | 1000
| stem:[a_4] | 76049 | 1 | stem:[a_(15)] | 587396 | 2
| stem:[a_5] | 203229 | 5 | stem:[a_(16)] | 616756 | 5
| stem:[a_6] | 240774 | 5 | stem:[a_(17)] | 660932 | 5
| stem:[a_7] | 255005 | 1 | stem:[a_(18)] | 740000 | 1000
| stem:[a_8] | 338699 | 5 | stem:[a_(19)] | 742000 | 1000
| stem:[a_9] | 349717 | 5 | stem:[a_(20)] | 757631 | 10
| stem:[a_(10)] | 369000 | 1000 | stem:[a_(21)] | 817337 | 5
| stem:[a_(11)] | 393962 | 2 | | |
6+| Frequency referenced to a~3~, P(13) 43-0, ^127^I~2~: f = 582490603442 kHz <<ci2003>>
|===
Ref. <<hackel>>, <<camy>>, <<borde>>, <<spieweck>>


|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ (R15) 43-0
| stem:[b_n] | stem:[[f(b_n) – f(b_1) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"] | stem:[b_n] | stem:[[f(b_n) – f(b_1) \] // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c // "kHz"]

| stem:[b_1] | 0 | — | stem:[b_(12)] | 566287 | 5
| stem:[b_2] | 69739 | 5 | stem:[b_(13)] | 630782 | 5
| stem:[b_3]  | 129155 | 5 | stem:[b_(14)] | 658178 | 5
| stem:[b_4]  | 217000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(15)] | 725166 | 5
| stem:[b_5]  | 335828 | 5 | stem:[b_(16)] | 739394 | 5
| stem:[b_6]  | 368000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(17)] | 791673 | 5
| stem:[b_7]  | 396442 | 5 | stem:[b_(18)] | 865523 | 5
| stem:[b_8]  | 471000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(19)] | 874840 | 5
| stem:[b_9]  | 472000 | 1000 | stem:[b_(20)] | 892895 | 10
| stem:[b_(10)]  | 500627 | 5 | stem:[b_(21)] | 947278 | 10
| stem:[b_(11) | 525207 | 5 | | |
6+a| Frequency referenced to:: stem:[a_n, P(13) 43-0, ^127^I~2~: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] <<ci2003>> +
stem:[f (a_1", P(13) 43-0)" – f(a_3", P(13) 43-0") = – 131770(1000)" kHz"] +
stem:[f (b_1", R(15) 43-0)" – f(a_1", P(13) 43-0") = 283835(5000)" kHz"] <<camy>>
|===
Ref. <<camy>>, <<borde>>


|===
6+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 515 " nm"] ^127^I~2~ R(98) 58-1
| stem:[d_n] | stem:[[f (d_n) – f (d_6)\]//"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"] | stem:[d_n] | stem:[[f(d_n) – f(d_6)]\/"kHz"] | stem:[u_c //"kHz"]

| stem:[d_1] | –413488 | 5 | stem:[d_9] | 225980 | 5
| stem:[d_2] | –359553 | 5 | stem:[d_(10)] | 253000 | 1000
| stem:[d_3] | –194521 | 5 | stem:[d_(11)] | 254000 | 1000
| stem:[d_4] | –159158 | 5 | stem:[d_(12)] | 314131 | 5
| stem:[d_5] | –105769 | 5 | stem:[d_(13)] | 426691 | 5
| stem:[d_6] | 0 | — | stem:[d_(14)] | 481574 | 5
| stem:[d_7] | 172200 | 5 | stem:[d_(15)] | 510246 | 5
| stem:[d_8] | 200478 | 5 | | |
6+a| Frequency referenced to:: stem:[a_3", P(13) 43-0"], ^127^I~2~: stem:[f = 582490603442" kHz"] <<ci2003>> +
stem:[f (d_6", R(98) "58-1) – f (a_3", P(13) 43-0") = –2100000(1000)" kHz"] <<forth>>
|===
Ref. <<borde>>, <<forth>>

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[jones,1]]], Jones R. J., Cheng W.-Y., Holman K. W., Chen L., Hall J. L., Ye J., Absolute-frequency measurement of the iodine-based length standard at 514.67 nm, _Appl. Phys_, 2002, *B 74* 597-601.

* [[[ci2003,2]]], Recommendation CCL 2c (_BIPM Com. Cons. Long._, 11th Meeting, 2003) adopted by the Comité International des Poids et Mesures at its 92nd Meeting as Recommendation 1 (CI-2003).

* [[[hackel,3]]], Hackel L. A., Casleton K. H., Kukolich S. G., Ezekiel S., Observation of Magnetic Octupole and Scalar Spin-Spin Interactions in I2 Using Laser Spectroscopy, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, 1975, *35*, 568-571.

* [[[camy,4]]], Camy G., _Thesis_, Université Paris-Nord, 1979.

* [[[borde,5]]], Bordé C. J., Camy G., Decomps B., Descoubes J.-P., High precision saturation spectroscopy of ^127^I~2~ with argon lasers at 5145 Å and 5017 Å : I - Main Resonances, _J. Phys._, 1981, *42*, 1393-1411.

* [[[spieweck,6]]], Spieweck F., Gläser M., Foth H.-J., Hyperfine Structure of the P(13), 43-0 Line of ^127^I~2~ at 514.5 nm, European Conference on Atomic Physics, Apr. 6-10, 1981, Heidelberg, _Europhysics Conference Abstracts_, *5A*, Part *I*, 325-326.

* [[[forth,7]]], Foth H. J., Spieweck F., Hyperfine Structure of the R(98), 58-1 Line of ^127^I~2~ at 514.5 nm, _Chem. Phys. Lett._, 1979, *65*, 347-352.

* [[[goncharov,8]]], Goncharov A., Amy-Klein A., Lopez O., Du Burck F., Chardonnet C., Absolute frequency measurement of the iodine-stabilized Ar^+^ laser at 514.6 nm using a femtosecond optical frequency comb, _Appl. Phys,_ *B 78*, 725-31, 2004.
