sources/rec-values/Rb_778nm.adoc, before:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date:
:revdate:
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 778 nm])

*Absorbing atom ^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5) two-photon transition*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 385285142375" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 778105421.23" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−11)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized to the centre of the twophoton transition. The values apply to a rubidium cell at a temperature below 100 °C and are corrected to zero laser power.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 385285142375(5)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(-11)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 778105421.23(1)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(-11)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[385285142378.3] | stem:[5.2 xx 10^(−12)] | <<touhari>>
| stem:[385285142373.8] | stem:[3.4 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[385285142372.3] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−11)] | <<sec-bernard>>
3+a| Weighted mean:: stem:[f = 385285142375.0" kHz"]
|===

applies to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition. The CCL decided to attribute a standard uncertainty of 5 kHz, corresponding to a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−11)]. footnote:[A recent measurement made after the CCL 2001 has confirmed one of the data <<rovera>>.]

[[sec-bernard]]
==== {blank}

Bernard et al. <<bernard>> gives

[align=left]
_f_ {^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 2) – 5D~5/2~(Fe = 4)}/2 stem:[= 385284566370.4 " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 5.2 xx 10^(−12)].

From <<felder>> cited in <<table4>>,

[align=left]
_f_ {^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 2) – 5D~5/2~(F~e~ = 4)}/2 - f {^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5)}/2 stem:[= -576002 " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(−11)],

one obtains

[align=left]
_f_ {^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5)}/2 stem:[= 385285142371.40] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.4 xx 10^(−11)].


=== Absolute frequency of the other transitions related to those adopted as recommended and frequency intervals between transitions and hyperfine components

These tables replace those published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 184-187 and Metrologia, 2003, *40*, 127-128.

The notation for the transitions and the components is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals are the weighted means of the values given in the references.

For the uncertainties, account has been taken of:

* the uncertainties given by the authors;
* the spread in the different determinations of a single component;
* the effect of any perturbing components;
* the difference between the calculated and the measured values.

In the tables, stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma] ).

When a two-photon transition is listed, the listed frequency indicates the one-photon laser frequency.

[[table1]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~3/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 3−1 | stem:[−44462655] | 7
| 3−2 | stem:[−44459151] | 7
| 3−3 | stem:[−44453175] | 7
| 3−4 | stem:[−44443871] | 7
| 2−1 | stem:[−42944789] | 7
| 2−2 | stem:[−42941283] | 7
| 2−3 | stem:[−42935308] | 7
| 2−4 | stem:[−42926004] | 7
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<nez>>


[[table2]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~5/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 3−5 | 0 | —
| 3−4 | stem:[4718] | 9
| 3−3 | stem:[9228] | 9
| 3−2 | stem:[13031] | 9
| 3−1 | stem:[15771] | 14
| 2−4 | stem:[1522595] | 9
| 2−3 | stem:[1527094] | 9
| 2−2 | stem:[1530887] | 9
| 2−1 | stem:[1533631] | 11
| 2−0 | stem:[1535084] | 26
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<felder>> footnote:fref[Improved interval measurements are available for certain components and can be used provided appropriate consideration to uncertainties is made.], <<nez>>


[[table3]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~3/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 2−0 | stem:[−45047389] | 7
| 2−1 | stem:[−45040639] | 7
| 2−2 | stem:[−45026674] | 7
| 2−3 | stem:[−45004563] | 7
| 1−1 | stem:[−41623297] | 7
| 1−2 | stem:[−41609335] | 7
| 1−3 | stem:[−41587223] | 7
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<nez>>


[[table4]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~5/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 2−4 | stem:[−576001] | 9
| 2−3 | stem:[−561589] | 9
| 2−2 | stem:[−550112] | 9
| 2−1 | stem:[−542142] | 9
| 1−3 | stem:[2855755] | 9
| 1−2 | stem:[2867233] | 9
| 1−1 | stem:[2875200] | 9
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<felder>> footnote:fref[], <<nez>>


=== Absolute frequency of other transitions

==== Absorbing atom ^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 2) – 7S~1/2~ (F~e~ = 2) two-photon transition

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 394397384460" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 760127906.05" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.7 xx 10^(−10)] apply to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition.

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 394397384460(67)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.7 xx 10^(−10)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 760127906.05(.13)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.7 xx 10^(−10)]

After [Refs <<marian2004>>, <<marian2005>>]

==== Absorbing atom ^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 1) – 7S~1/2~ (F~e~ = 1) two-photon transition

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 394400482100" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 760121936.0" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[4.5 xx 10^(−10)] apply to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition.

[align=left]
Adopted value : stem:[f = 394400482100(180)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 4.5 xx 10^(−10)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 760121936.0(.34)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 4.5 xx 10^(−10)]

After [Refs <<marian2004>>, <<marian2005>>]

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[touhari,1]]], Touahri D., Acef O., Clairon A., Zondy J.-J., Felder R., Hilico L., de Beauvoir B., Biraben F., Nez F., Frequency measurement of the 5S~1/2~ (F=3) − 5D~1/2~ (F=5) two-photon transition in rubidium, _Opt. Commun._, 1997, *133*, 471-478.

* [[[jones,2]]], Jones D. J., Diddams S. A., Ranka J. K., Stentz A., Windeler R. S., Hall J. L., Cundiff S. T.,, Carrier-Envelope Phase Control of Femtosecond Mode-Locked Lasers and Direct Optical Frequency Synthesis, _Science_, 2000, *288*, 635-639.

* [[[rovera,3]]], Rovera G. D., Zondy J.-J., Acef O., Ducos F., Wallerand J.-P., Knight J. C., Russel P. St. J., New Results in Optical Frequency Measurement Using a Femtosecond Laser, Proc. _CPEM’02_ ISBN 0-7803-7243-5, catalog number 02CH 37279, 422-423.

* [[[bernard,4]]], Bernard J. E., Madej A. A., Siemsen K. J., Marmet L., Latrasse C., Touahri D., Poulin M., Allard M., Têtu M., Absolute frequency measurement of a laser at 1556 nm locked to the 5S~1/2~-5D~5/2~ two-photon transition in ^87^Rb, _Opt. Commun._, 2000, *173*, 357-364.

* [[[felder,5]]], Felder R., Touhari D., Acef O., Hilico L., Zondy J.-J., Clairon A., de Beauvoir B., Biraben F., Julien L., Nez F., Millerioux Y., Performance of a GaAlAs laser diode stabilized on a hyperfine component of two-photon transitions in rubidium at 778 nm, _SPIE_, 1995, *2378*, 52-57.

* [[[ci2002,6]]], Recommendation M1 (_BIPM Com. Cons. Déf. Mètre_, 10th meeting, 2001) adopted by the Comité International des Poids et Mesures at its 91th Meeting as Recommendation 1 (CI-2002).

* [[[nez,7]]], Nez F., Biraben F., Felder R., Millerioux Y., Optical frequency determination of the hyperfine components of the 5S~1/2~ – 5D~3/2~ two-photon transitions in rubidium, _Opt. Commun._, 1993, *102*, 432-438.

* [[[marian2004,8]]], Marian A., Stowe M. C., Lawall J. R., Felinto D., Ye J., United Time-Frequency Spectroscopy for Dynamics and Global Structure, _Sciencexpress_, 1126/1-10, 2004.

* [[[marian2005,9]]], Marian A., Stowe M. C., Felinto D., Ye J., Direct Frequency Comb Measurements of Absolute Optical Frequencies and Population Transfer Dynamics, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, *95*, 023001/1-4, 2005.

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/Rb_778nm.adoc, after:

= MEP 2005
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 778 nm]) (2005)
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date:
:revdate:
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 778 nm])

*Absorbing atom ^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5) two-photon transition*

=== CIPM recommended values

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 385285142375" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 778105421.23" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−11)] apply to the radiation of a laser stabilized to the centre of the twophoton transition. The values apply to a rubidium cell at a temperature below 100 °C and are corrected to zero laser power.

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 385285142375(5)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(-11)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 778105421.23(1)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(-11)]

calculated from::

[%unnumbered]
|===
| stem:[f // "kHz"] | stem:[u_c//y] | source data
| stem:[385285142378.3] | stem:[5.2 xx 10^(−12)] | <<touhari>>
| stem:[385285142373.8] | stem:[3.4 xx 10^(−12)] | <<jones>>
| stem:[385285142372.3] | stem:[1.4 xx 10^(−11)] | <<sec-bernard>>
3+a| Weighted mean:: stem:[f = 385285142375.0" kHz"]
|===

applies to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition. The CCL decided to attribute a standard uncertainty of 5 kHz, corresponding to a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.3 xx 10^(−11)]. footnote:[A recent measurement made after the CCL 2001 has confirmed one of the data <<rovera>>.]

[[sec-bernard]]
==== {blank}

Bernard et al. <<bernard>> gives

[align=left]
_f_ {^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 2) – 5D~5/2~(Fe = 4)}/2 stem:[= 385284566370.4 " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 5.2 xx 10^(−12)].

From <<felder>> cited in <<table4>>,

[align=left]
_f_ {^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 2) – 5D~5/2~(F~e~ = 4)}/2 - f {^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~(F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5)}/2 stem:[= -576002 " kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.3 xx 10^(−11)],

one obtains

[align=left]
_f_ {^85^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 3) – 5D~5/2~ (F~e~ = 5)}/2 stem:[= 385285142371.40] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.4 xx 10^(−11)].


=== Absolute frequency of the other transitions related to those adopted as recommended and frequency intervals between transitions and hyperfine components

These tables replace those published in BIPM Com. Cons. Long., 2001, *10*, 184-187 and Metrologia, 2003, *40*, 127-128.

The notation for the transitions and the components is that used in the source references. The values adopted for the frequency intervals are the weighted means of the values given in the references.

For the uncertainties, account has been taken of:

* the uncertainties given by the authors;
* the spread in the different determinations of a single component;
* the effect of any perturbing components;
* the difference between the calculated and the measured values.

In the tables, stem:[u_c] represents the estimated combined standard uncertainty (stem:[1 sigma] ).

When a two-photon transition is listed, the listed frequency indicates the one-photon laser frequency.

[[table1]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~3/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 3−1 | stem:[−44462655] | 7
| 3−2 | stem:[−44459151] | 7
| 3−3 | stem:[−44453175] | 7
| 3−4 | stem:[−44443871] | 7
| 2−1 | stem:[−42944789] | 7
| 2−2 | stem:[−42941283] | 7
| 2−3 | stem:[−42935308] | 7
| 2−4 | stem:[−42926004] | 7
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<nez>>


[[table2]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~5/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 3−5 | 0 | —
| 3−4 | stem:[4718] | 9
| 3−3 | stem:[9228] | 9
| 3−2 | stem:[13031] | 9
| 3−1 | stem:[15771] | 14
| 2−4 | stem:[1522595] | 9
| 2−3 | stem:[1527094] | 9
| 2−2 | stem:[1530887] | 9
| 2−1 | stem:[1533631] | 11
| 2−0 | stem:[1535084] | 26
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<felder>> footnote:fref[Improved interval measurements are available for certain components and can be used provided appropriate consideration to uncertainties is made.], <<nez>>


[[table3]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~3/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 2−0 | stem:[−45047389] | 7
| 2−1 | stem:[−45040639] | 7
| 2−2 | stem:[−45026674] | 7
| 2−3 | stem:[−45004563] | 7
| 1−1 | stem:[−41623297] | 7
| 1−2 | stem:[−41609335] | 7
| 1−3 | stem:[−41587223] | 7
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<nez>>


[[table4]]
|===
3+^.^| stem:[lambda ~~ 778" nm"] ^85^Rb 5S~1/2~ - 5D~5/2~ two-photon transition
| stem:["F"_"g" − "F"_"e"] | [_f_ (5S~1/2~ (F~g~) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~))/2 − _f_~ref~]/kHz | stem:[u_c//"kHz"]
| 2−4 | stem:[−576001] | 9
| 2−3 | stem:[−561589] | 9
| 2−2 | stem:[−550112] | 9
| 2−1 | stem:[−542142] | 9
| 1−3 | stem:[2855755] | 9
| 1−2 | stem:[2867233] | 9
| 1−1 | stem:[2875200] | 9
3+a| Frequency referenced to:: (5S~1/2~ (F~g~=3) − 5D~5/2~ (F~e~=5))/2 {^85^Rb}: stem:[f_(ref) = 385285142375" kHz"] <<ci2002>>
|===
Ref. <<felder>> footnote:fref[], <<nez>>


=== Absolute frequency of other transitions

==== Absorbing atom ^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 2) – 7S~1/2~ (F~e~ = 2) two-photon transition

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 394397384460" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 760127906.05" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[1.7 xx 10^(−10)] apply to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition.

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 394397384460(67)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.7 xx 10^(−10)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 760127906.05(.13)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 1.7 xx 10^(−10)]

After [Refs <<marian2004>>, <<marian2005>>]

==== Absorbing atom ^87^Rb, 5S~1/2~ (F~g~ = 1) – 7S~1/2~ (F~e~ = 1) two-photon transition

[align=left]
The values:: stem:[f = 394400482100" kHz"] +
stem:[lambda = 760121936.0" fm"]

with a relative standard uncertainty of stem:[4.5 xx 10^(−10)] apply to the single-photon laser frequency of the two-photon transition.

[align=left]
Adopted value : stem:[f = 394400482100(180)" kHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 4.5 xx 10^(−10)]

[align=left]
for which:: stem:[lambda = 760121936.0(.34)" fm"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 4.5 xx 10^(−10)]

After [Refs <<marian2004>>, <<marian2005>>]

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[touhari,1]]], Touahri D., Acef O., Clairon A., Zondy J.-J., Felder R., Hilico L., de Beauvoir B., Biraben F., Nez F., Frequency measurement of the 5S~1/2~ (F=3) − 5D~1/2~ (F=5) two-photon transition in rubidium, _Opt. Commun._, 1997, *133*, 471-478.

* [[[jones,2]]], Jones D. J., Diddams S. A., Ranka J. K., Stentz A., Windeler R. S., Hall J. L., Cundiff S. T.,, Carrier-Envelope Phase Control of Femtosecond Mode-Locked Lasers and Direct Optical Frequency Synthesis, _Science_, 2000, *288*, 635-639.

* [[[rovera,3]]], Rovera G. D., Zondy J.-J., Acef O., Ducos F., Wallerand J.-P., Knight J. C., Russel P. St. J., New Results in Optical Frequency Measurement Using a Femtosecond Laser, Proc. _CPEM’02_ ISBN 0-7803-7243-5, catalog number 02CH 37279, 422-423.

* [[[bernard,4]]], Bernard J. E., Madej A. A., Siemsen K. J., Marmet L., Latrasse C., Touahri D., Poulin M., Allard M., Têtu M., Absolute frequency measurement of a laser at 1556 nm locked to the 5S~1/2~-5D~5/2~ two-photon transition in ^87^Rb, _Opt. Commun._, 2000, *173*, 357-364.

* [[[felder,5]]], Felder R., Touhari D., Acef O., Hilico L., Zondy J.-J., Clairon A., de Beauvoir B., Biraben F., Julien L., Nez F., Millerioux Y., Performance of a GaAlAs laser diode stabilized on a hyperfine component of two-photon transitions in rubidium at 778 nm, _SPIE_, 1995, *2378*, 52-57.

* [[[ci2002,6]]], Recommendation M1 (_BIPM Com. Cons. Déf. Mètre_, 10th meeting, 2001) adopted by the Comité International des Poids et Mesures at its 91th Meeting as Recommendation 1 (CI-2002).

* [[[nez,7]]], Nez F., Biraben F., Felder R., Millerioux Y., Optical frequency determination of the hyperfine components of the 5S~1/2~ – 5D~3/2~ two-photon transitions in rubidium, _Opt. Commun._, 1993, *102*, 432-438.

* [[[marian2004,8]]], Marian A., Stowe M. C., Lawall J. R., Felinto D., Ye J., United Time-Frequency Spectroscopy for Dynamics and Global Structure, _Sciencexpress_, 1126/1-10, 2004.

* [[[marian2005,9]]], Marian A., Stowe M. C., Felinto D., Ye J., Direct Frequency Comb Measurements of Absolute Optical Frequencies and Population Transfer Dynamics, _Phys. Rev. Lett._, *95*, 023001/1-4, 2005.
