sources/rec-values/Rb_780nm.adoc, before:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber: 
:title-en: 
:title-fr: 
:doctype: guide
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 780 nm])

*^87^Rb atom, crossover transition between the _d_ and _f_ hyperfine components of the saturated absorption at 780 nm (D2 transition)*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency:

f(^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) = 384227981.9 MHz

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) = 780246291.6 fm,

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5 xx 10^(-10)] applies to the radiation of a tunable Extended Cavity Diode Laser, stabilized to the _d/f_ saturated absorption line in a well characterized magnetically shielded rubidium absorption cell by the third-harmonic technique,

* cell temperature stem:[(22.5 +- 1)"°C"]
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak, stem:[(5 +- 1)" MHz"];
* saturating beam intensity of stem:[(120 +- 20)" mW cm"^(-2)]

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 384227981.9 " MHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 5 xx 10^(-10)]

calculated from

[%unnumbered]
|===
^| _f_(^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) / kHz ^| stem:[u_c//y] ^| source data
| stem:[384227981877.3 (5.5)] ^| stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−11)] ^| <<ye>>
| stem:[384227981867.8 (165)] ^| stem:[4.3 xx 10^(−10)] ^| <<bitou>>
|===

as a weighted mean. The fractional uncertainty was evaluated to be approximately stem:[4.3 xx 10^(−10)] for a 0.01 s averaging time <<bitou>>. For the recommendation this uncertainty was rounded to stem:[5 xx 10^(−10)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[ye,2]]], J. Ye, S. Swartz, P. Jungner, and J. L. Hall, "Hyperfine structure and absolute frequency of the ^87^Rb 5P~3/2~ state", _Opt. Lett._ *21*, 1280 (1996).

* [[[bitou,3]]], Y. Bitou, K. Sasaki, H. Inaba, F.-L. Hong, A. Onae, "Rubidium-stabilized diode laser for high-precision interferometer", _Opt. Eng._ *43*, 900 (2004).

Commit message:

Fix up rec-values metadata, prepare for #46

sources/rec-values/Rb_780nm.adoc, after:

= Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second
:appendix: 2
:partnumber: 1
:edition: 9
:copyright-year: 2019
:language: en
:docnumber:
:title-appendix-en: Recommended Values of Standard Frequencies for Applications Including the Practical Realization of the Metre and Secondary Representations of the Definition of the Second: Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 780 nm])
:title-appendix-fr:
:title-en: The International System of Units
:title-fr: Le système international d’unités
:doctype: mise-en-pratique
:parent-document: si-brochure.adoc
:committee-acronym: CCL-CCTF-WGFS
:committee-en: CCL-CCTF Frequency Standards Working Group
:si-aspect: m_c_deltanu
:docstage: in-force
:confirmed-date: 2015-10
:revdate: 2016-05
:docsubstage: 60
:imagesdir: images
:mn-document-class: bipm
:mn-output-extensions: xml,html,pdf,rxl
:local-cache-only:
:data-uri-image:

== Rubidium (stem:[lambda ~~ 780 nm])

*^87^Rb atom, crossover transition between the _d_ and _f_ hyperfine components of the saturated absorption at 780 nm (D2 transition)*

=== Recommended value <<ci2015>> of the frequency:

f(^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) = 384227981.9 MHz

equivalent to

stem:[lambda](^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) = 780246291.6 fm,

with an estimated relative standard uncertainty of stem:[5 xx 10^(-10)] applies to the radiation of a tunable Extended Cavity Diode Laser, stabilized to the _d/f_ saturated absorption line in a well characterized magnetically shielded rubidium absorption cell by the third-harmonic technique,

* cell temperature stem:[(22.5 +- 1)"°C"]
* frequency modulation width, peak-to-peak, stem:[(5 +- 1)" MHz"];
* saturating beam intensity of stem:[(120 +- 20)" mW cm"^(-2)]

=== Source data

[align=left]
Adopted value:: stem:[f = 384227981.9 " MHz"] +
stem:[u_c//y = 5 xx 10^(-10)]

calculated from

[%unnumbered]
|===
^| _f_(^87^Rb~d/f~ ~crossover~) / kHz ^| stem:[u_c//y] ^| source data
| stem:[384227981877.3 (5.5)] ^| stem:[1.5 xx 10^(−11)] ^| <<ye>>
| stem:[384227981867.8 (165)] ^| stem:[4.3 xx 10^(−10)] ^| <<bitou>>
|===

as a weighted mean. The fractional uncertainty was evaluated to be approximately stem:[4.3 xx 10^(−10)] for a 0.01 s averaging time <<bitou>>. For the recommendation this uncertainty was rounded to stem:[5 xx 10^(−10)].

[bibliography]
=== References

* [[[ci2015,1]]], CIPM Recommendation 2 (CI-2015): Updates to the list of standard frequencies http://www.bipm.org/jsp/en/CIPMRecommendations.jsp

* [[[ye,2]]], J. Ye, S. Swartz, P. Jungner, and J. L. Hall, "Hyperfine structure and absolute frequency of the ^87^Rb 5P~3/2~ state", _Opt. Lett._ *21*, 1280 (1996).

* [[[bitou,3]]], Y. Bitou, K. Sasaki, H. Inaba, F.-L. Hong, A. Onae, "Rubidium-stabilized diode laser for high-precision interferometer", _Opt. Eng._ *43*, 900 (2004).
